you know , one of the great reasons in traveling and one of the joys in ethnography is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important for the good of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the innate , look at them as orginial and colorful , but somehow constrained them to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , is progressing .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five hundred .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to be able to spread in a similar way , and then we &apos;re going to be very well connected , so that we can get more people involved .
and i would invite everyone to deal with it and try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era in which we were against and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work for people ?
this is a question that i &apos;m very moved by as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and in front of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media , so that they can use these interactive media , and so they can create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that the interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , so thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can just recreate them through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high technology that you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i once wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a fundamentally natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very imagery , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the sensitivity of linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about the virtuality that is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove this to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that to me immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , to show virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do that all the time .
and this ability to virtualize the virtual reality , which people in the pre-industrial times also needed bitter , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photoolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory took place .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being less on sioux than they were doing bow and arrow tasks when the americans stopped being americans when they were doing horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge has been called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge has just been passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , the human being was also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but i &apos;ll talk about that in a minute .
essential tools of information mediation have been stories since all of the time .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were exposed to preserving knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong in stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still combine a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories until the age of the grandchildren .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
that goes way back to the cultures of the pre-industrial times .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , as a particularly impressive thing is that we &apos;ve anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of the nootka indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-land maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , of the australian native people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-maps , but they used the so-called songlines , or trauma paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be represented by songs .
where the language was subordinated by subordinated rang .
that is , you navigated about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , has allowed you to defragment these songs and put them together differently and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from top a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
this is what &apos;s happened in the genital machine age .
we &apos;ve moved in what we call the avian age before .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what &apos;s happened is the book , and it &apos;s the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have a piece of god to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , so not the television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media have fossilized our memories and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and in many ways celebrated as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what is it that affects our thinking and our memory ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they have been more and more overwritten over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we &apos;re no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract language .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures anymore that things are not in pictures , but we &apos;re coding them our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the storytelling .
still , we &apos;re very , very arrested to the storytelling as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , they bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain that a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , it &apos;s a concept of what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , which is to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is being addressed again .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving into non-existential , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligent to a human being .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so that you can pause with the two of them on the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how to address this archaic , cognitive model again .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the follower of the panel lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with some console in their hand .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s designed to think that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so that i &apos;m rediscovering the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in a much better way , there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is , i &apos;m exploring a city by looking at where positive or negative places have been tweeted .
that meant that he was killed immediately during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocabulary age , and that we &apos;ve gone a little bit disrupted in the machine age , that the cyber age can be reactivated with what we call the cyber age , and that in this way , we can actually get back to our roots in this way about complex , technological , new products , not in the future , but actually come back to us .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking sack , and it &apos;s going to be mine instead of talking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change the way we think , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to repel it , and so on .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often pushed into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the designers begin to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and in front of the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , so the next generation of human computing , in the relationship of the human computer , is how our tools , or how the computer is changing from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe you have to look back at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , in short , we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that means that you &apos;ve found yourself by talking a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved to the same cave , you &apos;ve moved to other areas , you &apos;ve created cities , you &apos;ve created villages , and you &apos;ve kind of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn it sucessively and proportionately .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and i &apos;m going to throw it in stone , and i &apos;m going to manipulate it .
so , depending on how i carve and when i carve , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got in .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today primarily .
this is just the printed and printed script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just as a monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re going to be doing this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused by this , because on the one hand , we see the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
the sister who did this brave act was brought into an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no beef is any more or other phenomena , which is , i just want to do this , and i want to do this .
and these two worlds are just banging up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitively , but also the total transparency .
as you knew in the village at the time , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile devices at the global level .
whether it &apos;s that we know globally accumulating and accumulating faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped out of sight on a armband of maos , and for that transmission , she had to go to a heavy job camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
now , in front of the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , what does it mean , what &apos;s natural for us , what is it that we may have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and when is , of course , a little intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , influence it and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re looking at it , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside the inner self .
and what does it really look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively , and how do our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetan can be intolerable , but the redeeming spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitive , which means at the core .
and you can see that you have a our seven senses , most people think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven , and there &apos;s certainly the next , eighth sense in the future , and as an extension of ourselves .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means .
but i have to understand , at the core , in nature , when does information become information , when will information , and from information , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , handable afterwards .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonies or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll be thinking about where &apos;s in the right .
and the one on the left is just intuitive , and then i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in there , and that &apos;s the salt .
but also our perception of ourselves , how it &apos;s fooling us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , shape-free , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream , and we forgot that there have ever been other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle already starts to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and then , if i &apos;m going to put a halboval on it , we suddenly don &apos;t just see one more unit , which is circle , circle and , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see more three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is called gestalt law , or gestalt psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
the design law of the nearby , the design law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget again .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
that is , they projieve an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just projoling our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our sehedron , to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projured what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , and that comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , really , look again , and make sure that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and what kind of millisecond areas these things are going on .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , we signed the cult of the seeds , the poetry of the shame , replaced by the prose of the priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see anything ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you &apos;re always seeing it .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled them now , that they don &apos;t recognize any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning them in a very short period of time to see this dog again and again in this devastating picture .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projieving forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which are then in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s just here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times , where i &apos;m going to do it by engaging someone with three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he has to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what takes five milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time when you fall in love .
that means , notice , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of reassuring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it accordingly .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily , of course , with the subject of the human object relationship .
so how does a human being deal with certain things .
there &apos;s a product linguistically the practical functions , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does someone spend a little bit of time , where there &apos;s hardly anything in it , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re looking at , of course , as designers .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , usability .
usability always means , how can i get to a certain destination , or how can a user in a certain context of use be able to effectively , efficiently and happily achieve a goal ?
that &apos;s how it says the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible user-friendly ?
can i use that directly , or do i need a manual , or do i need a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing it differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better to handle .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look in part at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive or not usable , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not only since apple is a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i want to use technology devices to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , for example , are five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , it takes five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , you just take an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be able to go home for four hours , but your employer , or anyone , is going to come up with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to achieve certain things .
so if we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have already worked with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it much more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is already working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that , all of a sudden , i think that the appearance of success is becoming an application .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and during the 50th years in the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move in settlements .
and then if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i have a voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and not by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point , when do things actually get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish my little friend here and see , what does that mean from the point of view of cognition , when is it really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always a little intuitive for us humans when i have to think about it very little .
so , apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he wants to do it in a very simple way .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a designer .
that is , i can just transfer an intuitive human action model to a software and make the software much more user-friendly .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already told you .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for more oriented , selective , informed , transformed .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to seven thousand times of us ever after activity , so in the sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s going to be less often punished than it is on the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of usage friendship than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i orient as a supervision , select as a choice , inform in the trap , it comes up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction , i can throw it somewhere , or send it to somebody , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was afraid of his life took all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
overview : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out again , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , and i can now filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than when , through hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , you know , can make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to conclude , a and again , to give the clues , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you &apos;re a child , as a baby , is that you care about what the divorces you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play more or less in the pottery , the more , in a way , your curiosity is , of course , woven .
and the curiosity is not learning .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically putting this whole environmental discussion , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , into quality .
and there &apos;s a central point here .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day they give + they give about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the tracks of their sledges were originally made out of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it away .
and what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re looking at something that &apos;s actually self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and already , through the phosphorus mining of the world , a lot more uranium is being put into the environment than is used in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blowing storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way i would say , shake your child , just three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weighs to the bathroom , our whole earth will become a cemetery sooner or later .
that &apos;s why thinking about the weighs to the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he swallowed out , dropped his pants out of seaweed and defeated into his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
right now , we &apos;re building corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we &apos;re reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem .
and everything is packaging or content .
for example , in openbach , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of you in the pre-wind phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalian knife , and when it was frozen completely , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement to the pigs over the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s the evidence , right ?
he contains the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sledge , put a different dog on it , and he swore over the ice sheets with the fecalian knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you talk to the people to exist , if you say that &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;ll be refining and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means the ants weigh much more than we do .
that &apos;s how you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work a lot harder physically than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in the energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are from what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , up to 20 , you want to be here climaneutral , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
have you ever heard of some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back in circles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about it .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april 1999 the full control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-land , no bioland , no natural progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was highly discarded , it happened with the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
directly , we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a night pot is still called honey pots , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has always taken over , but has never given back to the farmers .
so the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to make civilization for five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for food to stay until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
what &apos;s really nice about this is , if you do this , you make agriculture , you make biogas , you know , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , you can get a farmer about a thousand dollars , and you can wait for the plant to grow chickens and pigs and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over ninety percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recovery with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that means that the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter of aluminum , and then the facility would be ruined over the years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something about it , you write down , in germany , the best way to do it is by all the sewage facilities in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankfurter facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been working in holland for three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s to ask what the right thing is .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s very effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
there we go .
that &apos;s not exactly right , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the enlightenment mud a little bit better , and to deploy it , and to lose all the materials for cycles in the burn facility , but to ask , first of all , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that is , all that matters in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
in every place you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in how we think from north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
156 nations send our tv channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heartfelt pity , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , avoiding , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , the people in the high bow are throwing out coke can from the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refour behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are just before extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is hardly what we know as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we do a series of trips to the ethnosphere , where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders , that they will be blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one by one , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
a tv set or a washing machine , they just use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that veil , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are only used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we figure out what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either locally or remove with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go into biological circles , right ?
all of it is composable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help with them , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they &apos;re really staying there .
so , help me a little bit .
we see lots and lots of gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can seamlessly and continuously get , wasting , rearranging in any way .
but it goes .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s what &apos;s going on .
we can do things now that , if they &apos;re broken , if they &apos;re going to break , they can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back into the cycle .
again , in every store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the winds again ?
if it &apos;s the garbage right now .
all over the place , these winds are around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s on the front of the deponia , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , that you can go back to cellulosic base , you can plant hundreds of trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a domain of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there now , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra clue , cradle to cradle , where everyone can participate .
so not saving , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it says that as an interpreter , i understand myself as a translator , in the english word sense .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and the word slope , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already translation from german into english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have just the written notes .
you think that the composer has written into the notes exactly everything he &apos;s imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the fragrance of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is not to hear the sawdust of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpret has to translate these unprecedented features of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to translate to you what i otherwise translate musical , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally significant for me to translate the translation of translation .
so , the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the meaning of the letters is only when you can see the language .
so for the learning process of music , you need at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a graduation , whether you learn it for the use of the harbor , just passively understands or you can talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s linguistic .
the work of the interpreter starts kind of like a theater director .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re first exploring the backgrounds of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you do comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think about it in that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpret , you have a rich knowledge about the composer that you play more and more often , and it makes you easier to think in and feel .
the composer becomes more and more the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but only a scaffolding , i now turn on this scaffold to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what you might mean for him today .
every tone , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own right now .
it has to be true for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been revising .
how to reexperience a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same thing over and over again .
i &apos;ve gotten older again a day that changes seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i perceive the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also affects my experience with the composition .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , fair conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and in the same way , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we haven &apos;t tried , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have then experienced how music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the way i &apos;m going to play at that moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i do in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore , on my palette of music sound , i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was already on his classes at my school .
i was 17 when i went back to one of his classes , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballad was for me .
this is such a contracted part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over 60s .
well , with seventh , you have dreams , but you don &apos;t have significant memories .
i &apos;m playing the piece every few years , and it &apos;s changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because over and over again , i read something new .
one example of this from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the seeroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
by now , i &apos;m older than chopin at the age of two and a half , when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he &apos;s only lived nine-and-a-half years .
and it &apos;s important for me to keep looking at the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
and when all the fingers are moving in time and right as it is in the notes , sounds come out that sound like music together .
if that happens freely , the student gets the next hard piece .
interpretation is hardly spoken in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s presto on the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and quiet signs , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know .
but even if you implement these attacks , it still remains just a little bit technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that , to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing because the parents didn &apos;t pretend to do it by themselves .
it &apos;s like learning to talk .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to get it through another possibility , which is to make it sound like an instrument .
people who have never been singing have never felt instantly with their own body , as it is to form a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the constant narrative today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is made when you &apos;re constantly sucked with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask you , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
in both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to find out if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal cords .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained that they &apos;re intractable .
and i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as you say today , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a viewing candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really picks up these ideas to create these constraints for the available place on the screen .
and i say , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get rid of food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether you like it or not .
whether or not the music is too sweet to you .
tell me what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want to have a little more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art you never look at has no power to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef , needs to be eaten and not just looked at or exchange recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults make active music , or at least listen to active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano at the moment as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the soundscape of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now make the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected from then as unplayable .
so the composers depend on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so you can hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think of today in the mind .
or what i &apos;m imagining today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been jealous ?
and how did that feel ?
shredded .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and when i come , with my little v w piesel and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the united states .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have a big car for ?
now , that loses half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than me .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i immediately think , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as envy just to disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overlaid on the top of nasa &apos;s arduous picture .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then rocks open , so that he &apos;s going to shut them down .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to have a lifespan to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or get them to fall .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
from that time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answers , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is and how much time it takes to learn something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist shares something to you , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something to you in such a portrait that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and not only in art , but in the folk , in the mythology , it comes back in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from this true origin , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of this true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do under politically correctness , to bring it back and forth .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in folk poetry , but in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the man should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband , and she said , &quot; that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of something if it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that livelihood .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , comparable to a rock , and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to resolve and what the traces that it leaves behind that lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healthier at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification uses the word because , we should try to replace it by the word .
do that once , and then you experience the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the origin .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about the fire .
he &apos;s interested in firemaking .
but there are no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he was signing up .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere , and you &apos;re delighted when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others are creating when they &apos;re just laying fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence of the fact that in the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious that jumps right away without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
so it &apos;s just the words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious sense that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to present to you two , maybe three examples .
the first example predicts what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not a stopp of material , material nature .
and if you have people who are convinced that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not from matter , they &apos;re just from meat and blood , something stone , sort of , to the earth that is bound , delicate , insignificant , unimportant , dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and now , from this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called the latin , the air smoke , is present .
and if that air cap then poisons over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of you , you understand the logic with which we experience this happiness of being able to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three sentences you still know from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have stuck these images together so that they can match the real space where these images that were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see here elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related to each other .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie so that you can just apply this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted it in particular here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who doesn &apos;t have a soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
here &apos;s the logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say the chancer is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately feels like you can make something out of it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assumed .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , which is photosynth-technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daily newspapers .
you have to have another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy , present .
this has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same thing in the middle between two equal hairs , it &apos;s starving .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how nature is presented .
same big forces with opposing currency signs dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if it immediately makes a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need a reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
he automatically walks to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that immediately attracts you , you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and you sometimes say , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who happened only in the computer with images of flickr . just give notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper , almost every day , is what you find in this third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of willingness , can &apos;t be drawn to responsibility for his actions and claims , and therefore it &apos;s inadequate .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove that there &apos;s something like freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of preceding is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , if you meet a human being that you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in this way in relation to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one that , of course , there are predictors like this , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making it clear that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he &apos;s led them to a stain that he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the way of shifting the burden of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a way to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember your self-lie that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea .
i have to say honestly , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to imagine .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i probably belong , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in carlsruh , technical college , i think , today , it &apos;s called kit .
and then it hit me in the mid-80s to berlin , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t exist in cardboard .
you know , i never believed i was going to work at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
they were all called kfa , and the jewish one was called kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but sort of doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which kind of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in crossberg in the courtyard , where you suspected the evil .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called the fuzzy tronics , and it made wind and solar energy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one didn &apos;t say no , the vetoprinzip , that completely crashed you , and i &apos;ve been doubting for 10 years , whether i &apos;ve really wasted my great engineering study , maybe really , to a devastating thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window in your child .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and it just came up with a picture where i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow , that was still , you know , basic wage , unemployment in the collective , of course , whether that &apos;s really the great thing to do .
and then i stopped it up to six and a half , and then we got together with friends , i became the co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge success story , but again , we have the problem of a growing company , and we then have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , what we think , is the same crazy thing , and that &apos;s going to start again with people saying , what &apos;s the rubbish , that &apos;s not going to work , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we &apos;ve just begun to ask a relatively simple , crazy story , where could you use a memory that makes sense today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they now have a fifteen percent renewable energy rate .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you build more wind power together , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershof our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated that was two-thousand-2006 , started the first contacts with the island , but just do the math .
how big a battery would have to be , in fact , to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go on a slide again .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power are built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is wiped out with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of three of these , two of them are always waited .
yes , this is what one sees at the bottom is the burden .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only feed in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the one is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger percentage .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , which is energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off this one .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can take over the entire grid , in a way .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
no one in the world has done that .
this is in a small style , so you can also use your razor in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershof ?
that &apos;s going on .
but if you want to put together several of these intersections , and they &apos;re supposed to build a web , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seventh to ninety-nine percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , that you do it from batteries .
that will definitely be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , that will be it .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was recorded properly .
you have to go to a seasonal memory , and winter summer , and not just tag night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and they simulated wind and sun and the load , and they came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you can get out of the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social shepherds .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the power company on the island , has meant that we love that .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical ratios of the island at the scale of one to three very precisely .
that is , we were looking for the first time to find the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt of performance , and it can get that performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , to actually simulate the entire dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the back of this , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the judges that we &apos;re simulating the net with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all these photographs are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , the diesel , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousandth , the hall has been done , until now , two-thousandth , basically everything that was here between the single system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the battery and the topic of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this is that , in fact , on this island today , you can take everything away from the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to move back and forth right now , energy turn , how is it going to go , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , to ask around , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
they get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through n smart-grid , you can do it by expanding the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , listen to the percentage , but you will never be able to completely dispense the memory .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made up of loud rotating masses of big power plants , where the wave is all around europe .
we look in this web , we see the 50 hertz , and if it becomes nine comma nine hertz , we &apos;ll catch some valves , then we &apos;ll go back in a little bit of merh steam , then we &apos;ll come back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible amounts .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds out with this big battery .
and you can see , there are enormous speeds of speed .
and the message is , we need to get rid of these rotating masses , if we &apos;re going to sort of 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply , the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal power plant , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gasturbines , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also putting electrochemical stores on the web .
and luckily , there &apos;s a lot of studies now .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use , is growing , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and then , for that purpose , people always come and look at our experimentation , sort of , our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take a piece of the future out there ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
if you don &apos;t , it &apos;s weakness , it &apos;s child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceived .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is that i &apos;ve been experiencing , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed up with metadata that another person has entered .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , even to climb 10 megawatt-battery now to the german net .
this is going to happen next april .
so from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanders , they make autark , they have their own little web , which has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is , quite simply , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy , which is being drilled out somewhere in the world and brought to you , you &apos;re an island .
then they only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , the talk of premium cola , is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and have a vision .
if someone has been struggling and labeled all these sacred people and shared who they are , then my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of overwhelming model of social experience using other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steve &apos;s article on it later , a book that was filmed again , with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied at juilliard-conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically ended early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos; book , or to watch the film , so that you can understand not only the wonderful connection that was created between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was ultimately the instrument when that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine me .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton in a very hot and social tone , and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , all of these are the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been preserved by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in the same kind of rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this miserable flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not because of it , but i was afraid that i could lose it , that he could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin , if i started talking about scale and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic limb .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some clips of violin concerts , and then asked me to end them : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i know only about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a loving , educated , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i get it right ? your software enables , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically connected ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that &apos;s inside of all of us , deep inside , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the triggering power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , sustainable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what this unimaginable problem was for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , probably or evil aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
many arguments against it . fisheries are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a 15 to one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that night , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i was telephone with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , i swear to god , who &apos;s been smashing fish after this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shameful white color .
then the scope of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally flipped the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- bark , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they &apos;re staring out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is flooded channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we fought through the wetlands , and i cheat and sweat , and i have mud up to my knees , and miguel is quietly holding a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glider .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more talking about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the night before .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-replicating .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you drag your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through the maximizing of the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos shouldn &apos;t even be there before .
they breed in a city of 240 kilometers away , where the ground nature is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly back 240 miles in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an unpredictable condition for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this biting , coated taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to suck up uncleaners . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any contaminants . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success at the success of its predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that doesn &apos;t have any uncleaners , it drives enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers today tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it &apos;s fought through the system , and this leaves the water clean than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that feeds its animals , not just a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and you should do that , because this love story , as romantic as it is , is also an enlightenment .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not the total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question , because it has determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a commercial in the wrap , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that allows this production to happen .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of the declining ingredients , but because of the declining resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deep in our water supply that it would not come to mind .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it &apos;s never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring instead of using up , businesses that are growing extensively , rather than just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to bring you to one thing today , it &apos;s that the total of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overlapping , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns emerge , and we see trends that would otherwise not have been visible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram of age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle section here , people are most active , and they &apos;re most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we go on and sort of age , let &apos;s say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and who &apos;s continuing to see that this is particularly true in men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here are the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to young children anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m going to click on this , and i &apos;m going to show all the spending that lance armstrong talks about .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with the bike ride ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediasites and reduced them to a small summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediacatories that are most likely to cover time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediaset .
that &apos;s just to recognize when you step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essig that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump right to a specific section .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in my course in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past . here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here for bing , or here for live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the site and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the databases .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information overload .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and by doing so , we can see patterns that would have remained otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then this data trap , maybe a new source of information becomes meaningful .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , we might even be able to pull wisdom out of it .
so i &apos;ll stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a belonging portion of science fiction .
in my school , i went to school with the bus , one hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts into other worlds , and in a narrative way satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests , and i would go and collect samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and pond water , and i would bring it home and look under the microscope .
i was really excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this over-saturation with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook , painting around .
creativity had to be kind of out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
certainly , i would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all of what i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself discourage .
i annoyed my father until he finally found a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , bright human imagination .
until today , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that fit together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we went back to computer-generated animation , cg .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surface-figure ever to see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in money , in fact , he just played his production cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy there , and the success depended on how this effect was going to happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at that time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
and we did that , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature- and &apos; design -- which we had actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to push the measurements in visual effects and computer-generated effects across new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made using cg , and the main figures should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was pretty much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we were not yet able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic extent , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i really wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , to be one of the last of your people who speak your language , to have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketer . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but it goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep-sea diving , a space mission resembled .
well , they were also highly technical , and they were allowed to do extensive planning .
you get into this capsule , and then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was actually obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and the science at the time when we saw them , had no words at all .
so that really flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started to dive to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it , so we developed the technology that we needed .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are quite similar to these boards , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjan vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner , i always knew what was going to show up in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over the movie set for months when we made the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars , and so you can put your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all sorts of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we had seen down there , for example , these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playful , nase-haired trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction influence of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in the nasa expertise council and plan real space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and then they go to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it turned out that i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but we actually did science , in fact , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think now , a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of that ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . it &apos;s not a trace .
everybody thinks i was between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar , &quot; and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment you have . you do it for the discovery , and because of the strange connection that emerges when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all this with only 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were in the lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on lake , &quot; you can &apos;t explain the other one . that &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you deserve yourself in the opposite direction of respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
and so my way of making films changed completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d done a really good job of doing these oceans and transporting them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the attention of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice on how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself , but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees a trust .
no important endeavor that demanded innovation was ever taken without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time job at the foundation is mainly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years , we &apos;re going to rain too much or too little , and things are going to change in the way that their fragile environment cannot sustain .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important for them .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , to the poverty reduction , energy would be far more effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the exhausted co2 , which leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature elevation has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to be under a three-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go all the way down to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we have to create changes that will reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have affected it at all , and we have to go from rapid increase to zero reduction to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to dispute and use less , but on average , that number is going to increase every year , and therefore more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the building , there are many services , whose energy effort some individual services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get this to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my contribution to the environment this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;ve been told that they don &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have an incredible scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you &apos;ve got to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you &apos;ve got to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after you burn , under pressure , and then store somewhere , and hope it &apos;s there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent is going to be very difficult , and getting an agreement for the storage of co2 is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the warehouse question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times bigger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t always hurt .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where else .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show you the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all sorts of batteries that are made : the ones that are made for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i &apos;ve compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i &apos;ve found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already engaged in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we all talked one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonic .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a &quot; walking wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you film ocean water cheap and easy , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the effectiveness measures to get reductions on the way , and the less we emitt , the less the carbon sum will be , and the temperature will be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even less important , as the others , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halved energy cycle without co2 , i will take that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term thinking people will be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice as to show this slide .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i appealing to ?
we need to use for more research .
when countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous funds that are spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market travel , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first of them .
as soon as the first one is done , when it goes like promises , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
in order to understand that , that means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : right . now you &apos;ve got to refill the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they bury without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our fills , and it dramatically reduces the waste volume during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in actually doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet found ourselves in a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting rules of revelation for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear . &quot; there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time-frame and probability of really creating something like this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , just as their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be the best way to do it , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance , because it might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientists : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you only have later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it not emitting co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the björn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , the poverty reduction , the fighting of malaria , and so on , that it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
other things should not suffer .
you get to big sums of money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new masche is now , &quot; why is the research not going to talk about anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about a meter of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
you talk about it , you think about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and they put spaghetti out .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow , and they put it very gently on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they produce really drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams that have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does this happen ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and they build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair badly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-enhancing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of the process companion .
they run the process , they understand it .
and that team that rules and looks at the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you and not get a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now i tried something interesting .
i thought , let &apos;s bring the poker &apos;s use .
so i offered a $ 10,000 price of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
so what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of people optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , that the wirelesslan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that you &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re doing : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death row .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have threatened only one generation ago , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hip , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphoma , roman , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying to do things is to see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world .
drinking water , urable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of this chaos , we also disappear .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been fighting progress , where we &apos;ve been doing more of these things , to more fronts than now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , to resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were in a certain way , rather than a random way , to move around , was a transfer to the field of nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be a very different experience of your child &apos;s football game than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we pass in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it twenty .
we &apos;re talking ironically about it , with little leaders about it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully never see it again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masses , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were conducted to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has masses ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 per hour .
but because this hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something we need to learn , and it &apos;s very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them away , you go back to the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little bit too shrimp . &quot;
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe this morning , somebody in lagos got on an airplane and is flying to los angeles , and right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you jump .
i know you &apos;ve done this because half of americans do this every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishingly cold and soul to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to even decide .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer quacksalber who wants to treat his patients with caffe-type procedures .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study of investing in volunteer retirement .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything that we eat , every rice , every branch of petersily , every rose , has been changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more accurate , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid is a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than at the moment . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were only offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this stuff in it .
and then people could eat the food , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now , there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do it the way we &apos;re guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , as &quot; a deception that becomes real , if someone believes in it enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s just because the person thinks what happens to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes only enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss large investments in their employers .
a deception becomes something real , because somebody perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my fault like this .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
in this way , you can see that there &apos;s nothing going on at any time , and as long as i push here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing for me .
because it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and make a letter on it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any form .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that makes a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle if you want to go to the thing .
this is an 18-inch long hat needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to go through it , until it &apos;s going to be on the other side .
if you &apos;re going to be bad -- if you &apos;re going to fall easily in favor -- i did this a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad fast , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part here in the back .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little bit of a einstein .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid , and it &apos;s going through the skin itself , just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this child of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically they came up with the milky flow from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is required by the great selection of different salatdressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is this image-presented alternative leads you to regret the decision , and this regret is negative to the satisfaction that you made by your decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can turn this around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see this later on , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , it would -- you see , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing that is disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think , in this frame here and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;re looking forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive traps .
secondly , what economists call oppertunity costs .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really quite emotionally , that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past , but basically only has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is looking at -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt now when i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memorable self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and to confuse the two is part of the consensus of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we &apos;re going to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful today , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the point of view of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve done that the memory itself of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
and what a story is about is outbreaks , major moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you kind of get the impression that you should count that what happened during those moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory itself for us .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the transition with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memorable self from a living self , and time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , then the one who chooses the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of the memory itself as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors of blue and green , because the celestial scene is the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often in relation to how often i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably eaten from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think in the sense of memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being that have long massed the exploration of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has ordered their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of happiness itself .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t think about happiness clearly is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who move to california in the hope of getting happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more options there are to choose , the more attractive features of this choice are taken into the oppertunity cost .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we telephone a few weeks ago , they mentioned to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something you can let us participate in , because you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly gets you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the whole american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , that the country would take a fund like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one important point that he makes is that whenever you choose to do one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute for the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours of play a week .
this may seem a little bit disgusting , so i repeat it so that it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a peculiar language and a marriage manuscript called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it &apos;s going to be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , deeply immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here , the eyes zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . prima . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so super-positive that they didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get there , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of doing this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world , when we &apos;re attacking the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yes ? ok .
this is me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. why we &apos;re better at play than in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in games . i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are turning into our best version , at any time and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just do anything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , and immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their skills , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and turn around . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are tons of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingertip , you have a staff ready .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a kind , and they bought them , and they were poorly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they carried them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one and plus-one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time that we prefer to spend all of our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years trying to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing games right now , it just makes sense when you think about time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person of today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total amount that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the end of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education where young people learn exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a random subject to the 21st year , we will become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world are doing .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have sort of unprecedented human potential .
so many people now in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to wash buttons or fans ? stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of dense social nets .
do you want jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we like people more after we &apos;ve played with them , even when they &apos;ve defeated us .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal , and we stay with the game .
so playing together enables the growth of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
do you want to cut far down , keen , blah blah , blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of awe missions of planetary extent .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischief , six or seven languages , is that you never hear anyone who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can make more social bonds in games than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that comes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes made of sheep . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep needed .
and these were , in a way , the first of human beings developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , cubic games , were invented in the kingdom of lydia during a famine .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to be a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re going to use games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get rid of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to use a final cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there was food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing games for 18 years , by flipping into games , and then having this insight and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the entire civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should overcome that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems of the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question i &apos;ve dedicated my work to the institute for the past few years .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empower people to put this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try to create people &apos;s epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in a way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing it since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained the habits in the game .
so for the next world-class game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we &apos;ve created almost like a jerry bruckheimer film .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strings , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social transformation , &quot; in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities all over sub-saharan africa and inviting them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on this . we have &quot; level up &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social nets , urgency optimism and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play important games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world-changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always had my synonymous dictionary in writing , but i &apos;ve been done with the process of texting , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , mutilated , mutilated , wounded , lahm , separated , served , balanced , impotent , casted , paralyzed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , restored , done , broken , counted , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh for the first time , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; aligned , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting myself after this sort of over-falling word tide and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a frantic , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen , and then you start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i will be celebrated for the odds and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under &quot; near antonyms , &quot; &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about can also manifest itself .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to call a human being mindlessly as a child could be enough to constrain them and to overcome them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors to you ?
a man who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly , infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i &apos;ve even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day , he saw me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and graceless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day one of these benches .
no one in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you all don &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so i do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the prospect that the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as a nature of strong , powerful and atlethal human being .
this is just one example of how adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the already quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow anyone to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is going to follow the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities , and to develop beyond the limits that they have set their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , to allow people to have their own identity , to define themselves in their own way , and to orient themselves to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful to society , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never adapted for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with adversity lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being shaped by the experience associated with it , as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to curve in order to deal with our lives better .
adversity is just part of our lives .
and i tend to think of adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make the impact , or the severe of the fight of a human being .
there are adversity and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is going to deal with it differently , but the question is not whether or not we &apos;re going to deal with adversity , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but also preparing them to get good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things : for one thing , the medical fact of being amputated and for the other , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability that i had to deal with is that the world constantly means that it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about us , and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical projections , or even to give them a prediction for quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t have the basis of someone who &apos;s actually disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for each one , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being wholly , and we don &apos;t perceive and recognize all its forces and possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention .
we should not deny or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we turn them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds of opportunity .
i think i &apos;m more likely to realize that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embrace it , to put it on the shelf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of adversity as something natural , coherent and useful , and we don &apos;t feel so disturbed by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its species survives , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflicts emerge from creativity .
not just from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of adversity , the perception of the icon , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can create a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can think of adversity as change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if they really were ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality against another set of possibilities , or strength , to even form it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen has found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience in the survival of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up , to a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i was very typical , to my birthday , two weeks late .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i had just a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bridge , this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
and what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i was in the parade , whether i was in the middle of the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he was using these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of a human being .
and dr. kean said , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids alone , then children can do a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prostheses against legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who wanted to constrain me or overcome an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word educate is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to produce something that is in one that is to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted peaceful in 1958 .
but leaving is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into total schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided after grades .
and the a students are tested tirelessly , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time , gave students a &quot; sufficiently &quot; the note &quot; very good , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that the reverse students were told that they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had failed the school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers were not denied .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-on-one students , and they were the students with the grade , and they were teaching them something , and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no more hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human mind , to continue to hope , to find ourselves and other people around us beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandments , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he just says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has always been looking for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor on the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it for others , or is it for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials at the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and take the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that every one of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than it &apos;s leading cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish without any effort on their own .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestive nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in the form of a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed d .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time , when multi-cellular organisms showed up , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes essential .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies occurs in evolution at the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we are generally better , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i are evolved like boster rockets to send the genetic question to the next stage of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to achieve immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and by doing so , the hot vapor survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would have vacuum cooked fish , but they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried to make a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason for that is that , first of all , through medicine , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and had been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us , and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a species of distant planets , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided to be individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to do genetic adaptations on the body that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or eliminate the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in drone to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality that there &apos;s going to be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who independently developed techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was awarded to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblast , and by manipulation of just four genes that induced the cell to bring it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself , but can also serve immunity to other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it will be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophilia , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the capability of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from alt-style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time in the selection of our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society of dielanguous and uniform , or robuster and multilateral ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good or in the bad , and before you might think , these decisions will be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman skills , or another one that helps wheelchair users to stand up and go back .
now , as a basic question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , the thing about thinking about it , what makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they put on in the morning that gives them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who &apos;s on average carrying about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the question that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal cord injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , to crawl , and to perform highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re so far , with our industrial partner , to introduce this device , this new exoskeleton this year .
so it &apos;s true .
so let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people sitting in the wheelchair around the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re talking a lot about very young people with spinal cord injury , which in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- were hit by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached here on your back .
here are also batteries , and the engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints , which they move forward in this very smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and in the best form , when a monstrous purple tree was paralyzing me as a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went to my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn how to ski again , climb and even drive with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman in a volunteer delay , the fire .
now , in our city , where volunteers were supporting a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be pretty early on in the fire to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the fire site , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible main man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the bedrock and barefoot under a screen out in the streaming rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of the owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was a lawyer or a wealth manager who could now tell the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living creature , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up , you have to go by the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went up -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who were pretty much finished at that point with the deletion , in the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down , where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we wore our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fire guard got a letter from the owner &apos;s house , where she was thanking for the brave use of saving her house .
one of the most valued kindness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at a large scale , but i also see the actions of the altruism and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they get to their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
serve in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us feel worse about it .
not every day will give us a chance to save the lives of a human being , but every day offers us the opportunity to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where the women are leading the recipe , with sex , saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationships .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
if something of what enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would it improve people &apos;s lives , but our dignity will be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by great , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to observe .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been raging for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plaguing us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of bringing new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while at the same time it &apos;s incredibly fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little bit quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they do , we sometimes play alone , and we &apos;re exposing boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we form are the real nutrition of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also maintain a secret to our future , a future where we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at the same moment , every baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two pairs , each baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because , if you imagine the production all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survivable , both of them .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- meaning human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , who are challenging social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have , fetal stadium , growing up to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone is in the fetal stage .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian sticks and uterus , she actually has testicles and she has a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk to androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgen receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbladder .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was internally menstruating that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , where ovarian tissue is surrounded by testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- are often adapted to the norm by surgeons , is not because it would be advantageous to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic exposure is going to come in with a particular identity .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity , to be a black person , which is , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged at the leichatlethik world cup in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me on the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female and intersexual ; in fact , we are the ones that pretend this line as natural .
this is almost limited to complete security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation like this , where , as our science continues , we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories , are much less sharper than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re finding the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward and forward , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve kept a feather under their nose , and when they moved , they haven &apos;t buried them yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today we are in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start to fight the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about democracy in terms of consideration .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years , i found myself looking at the malignant musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they proved was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years for us was measurable .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of the birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they nivellized the play field , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities counted , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth law .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and so they &apos;ve been preparing the future civil rights movement in a really wonderful way .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and eggs as a difference is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to own , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who spach over it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which are based on anatomical similarities before anatomic differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing with the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to question why we maintain certain separations .
well , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been launched at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she was born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and do at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months before heinrich , she gets all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have the right to choose the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be drawn in , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t perceive the same right in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is making such progress in the anatomy , that we have to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time it feels like science is self-sufficient .
we tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas decided at one point that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story that i told you about the androgenic defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people by &quot; their skin color , &quot; but by the trait of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social benefits more than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labradordogs that are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that could be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do our thing well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like in iran , for example , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to undergo a gender transformation in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and i asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids were going to be treated very poorly , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change for the state &apos;s sake .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or may have looked like , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relationships and care for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there could be something , on average , which makes female brains different from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relations , and more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely concerned about how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , if we &apos;re going to take democracy beyond anatomy -- to think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find , at every opportunity , a different colorful , crazy outfit , to wear , and also to photograph and blog recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from the second hand on flowing markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe to the environment , and also to my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes a shopping for my own personal searching .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve been packing for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found some things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i &apos;ve spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you will not only understand it , you will appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to create these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing clothes , or i remember their seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to touch these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s just waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in my heart and i &apos;m looking for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point of view .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because in the formula 1 in the past decade , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , that information from the car , pass that information on to the system , and then process it and then use it to send back that car and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made up of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as a computer in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it &apos;s still increasing , and our final point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceive and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition organized by paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , it means he took the hammer at the end and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with the perception .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we were doing was actually using a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s being collected from the operator anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the head shock .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head shock .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
so , very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the garbage and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day , the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , we can make a change in behavior .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about this , and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology with it ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they &apos;re creating something like a water curtain with water points .
if these images fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and leave it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , these days , when you go down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was an even more fun one .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little bit of a change in light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , not the position of the images .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller coming down to form a smooth v like before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single one of people is being controlled .
it could have a impulse from every single point of view that comes from people , from the movements of people or something .
i want to show you something first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery points , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said that they were doing this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re doing again with people to do something and to change the environment -- almost what we call a cloud movement , how to move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened in the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with images .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light bulb at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about the context .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was struck by awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me raced almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice customs .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their surroundings and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and claim to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we humans often see us .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in cassette tapes the size of the virus that we could vary the size of the cassets to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m going to take my footage of these icebergs , as if i &apos;m going to make portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they exist in these individual moments , and they will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be flawed .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the als .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in the resort , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;re hearing the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to fix it .
and i committed to his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw with a laser pointer on it that only registers the negative area .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sexes , and then the shrinks come , and then the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife at night and told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , then we should find a way to control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first of all , we got the insurance of the doors , and we actually got a device for tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back and all the images on the walls would be graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the venice beach promenade , my kids were involved , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach promenade , some copper wire and some things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can squeeze .
no hospital .
now , any paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rumble before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nights , tony drew for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve got his bed tilted so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i &apos;ve been pushed underwater , and finally someone has reached down and pulled my head up so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight cry .
that keeps us at the pole , and it keeps us evolving .
and we still have to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all sorts of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that there will be an exhibition in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty disconnected .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with generic technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and this is a question that every one of you should be asking yourself , every single day , where you have something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
we just signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman posting , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man that i know you &apos;ve found him now .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight to their family , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that included five to seven thousand letters , added them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most intuitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready for the crash . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a fear , life was over .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to reach a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to make a difference in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock starts , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; counting down .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of dying , man , is not terrifying .
almost as if we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to push up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is three million rays of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty straightforward .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research at stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing that we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he made use of countless zeroes .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has been put together again as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized that this is a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-functioning calls because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away , and determine what kind of animal they belong to .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely to be in iran , because most infections have been reported .
well , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
it &apos;s basically going out to the bureaucracy nuclear power plant and the uranium incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called them up , and i tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to let it happen slowly and secretly -- obviously in the attempt to make warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is really sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that fit really well together .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefe-mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them . yeast then automatically assembles them .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- has really taken me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming values of sensors -- so , for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the pursuit , the surveillance camera is fed with the video that &apos;s been recorded before .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just overlisting the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , if the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the use data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is footage over six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to face the consequences , and we better start to prepare for ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is the cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time kind of dangerous .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking for terrible situations , and all of this just trying to study social belonging in a way that they &apos;re enthralling and interesting , and hopefully in a way understanding what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
some of you may have heard that a few weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re seeing , which at the time didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues about what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could eventually fly around your ears after content , especially if i let your company stand dumb for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arrest me to go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely missed with brands -- from the cover sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we were to print it with a writing size of 10 and without distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how recipient people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will probably be &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do about the film or a difficult thing to do about me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as simple when you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , if you put transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and look through , instantly understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome . we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , an agency , was willing to help us -- and it &apos;s just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
whenever i go on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this before the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short socket .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of any place , adding thousands of characteristics in just a second to a species .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing stype ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s revival hits skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , the neglect fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schmuseum animals all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted writers .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and neglect fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could invade my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , febreze , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had added .
what is the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of it .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality has two separate , but it has supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth / playful brand .
they do very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies are just going to focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things that they &apos;re not sure about , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a skilled chess .
what other brands are doing ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would it be ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , outlandish and lovely like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and monument like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , considerable , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies that said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to get rid of this control , who wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t normally have told -- stories that a commercial would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you use mris today to plot the funeral centers of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no timeline , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are moving their way into impoverished schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i had the greatest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film was at the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half weeks period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of cambrian explosion in which there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has acquired a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their customers to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks that are in these risks .
i think if you keep people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that when we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that they might be afraid of .
finally , as we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
each one is a big spoon full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights of ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a $ 7100 check to fund my ted performance in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i started doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who is now , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
so when i was traveling and visiting these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just go on . a lot of fun .
hide them .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click this away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , and i spoke to some famous people at the met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the tuesday .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrushes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these pictures , you can put your own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is &quot; the donated , &quot; in the national allery .
you can see everything with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question that i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you by , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a horrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with soil swells , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you fly right through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so i would feel strongly better about the whole thing if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re looking right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesization methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new siliconic slices , and i racked to all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last little bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to hurt them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaves quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the travelers .
and then we did .
we turned off the light , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just sitting there quietly , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was kind of like this -- like a stretching and coherent bubble balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing in the clean space for all this year , because , check this out , the massstable difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were at the same time in several places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production , and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with the fact that your body is delocalized in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they want to live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
at the moment , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so , we could make the world very simple with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just exchange the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments are already doing this , but the other half are not yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you &apos;re going to get into , in these apartments and their surroundings , there are laws to avoid complaints and to distract from exhaustion .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , assuming the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
later , i found out that , about the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unsettled area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian bottleneck , and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything on the surface of these messages that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a major comprehension crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovations and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his stewardship .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , trying and studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give new technologies great attention , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so in december , we met in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember , in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , was that a charter city is a place where the beginning of uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there , and gives people the opportunity to decide either to live under those rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another talk with facts filled , which included a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that will come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships , which they would support in providing the laws for this charter , and in performing , that everybody can trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and mistrust for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as an output material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it captures a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted in congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional rule that is reliable for specific development areas .
in a country that has just been behind a major crisis , congress was elected for this change in the constitution with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
in order to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think that we &apos;re going to be the first with fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban building is singapore .
it &apos;s already built two cities in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
also , urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been declared , there &apos;s a lot of rent .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place .
a million people leave latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which according to a typical american in one day , is 70 .
also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that this ceo is dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at making the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-making problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank water .
i loved to go to this business , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years old olive trees .
so one day i decided to go to the filialleiter , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her martian gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we &apos;ve set up a little costing ceiling right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first , what would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were buying a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who were standing when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than if they had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production stores , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people something between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the participation was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that offered two fonds , they had a partial rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , if there were more options for choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have more possibilities available to them , the more they rent it to actia and fund .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that someone would recommend from people if we care about their future financial well-being .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- push it up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they choose more for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that we may enjoy looking at these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparisons and the boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? becoming a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to constrain , and the unimportant opportunities are going to get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst selling cats , they found that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today , is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson has been very much involved in , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff is now automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always a year in the back , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that they were objectively looking at , the first time they had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that they felt it the second time they were real .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , having to understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be felt vividly and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an ec-map or a credit card than they do on baremoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as it was , just as we &apos;ve added a little bit .
the little thing that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or increase by four percent in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryontes .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine process .
it turns out that in the way of supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , the number between 331 different kinds of magazines is up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 , if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the selector something , not the one who provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car color , foreign color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice all the time in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough are going over and over and over again the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little choice to the many , then stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses , nothing about my preferences at the interior , it still prepare me to choose .
so this is it . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment that has ever been done -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be interested in it .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision-making -- limited -- get rid of the excess alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in the selection .
and the more we choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos become viral , and then we want to talk about why this is important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa there was no religious faith , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become insanely famous in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , only one tiny percentage ever gets viral and is looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos;s &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 forgot , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared with a large audience , and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insider joke , and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
this is what i &apos;m working on . it &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we &apos;re doing with it .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts could you have written in which this is in ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can emerge like the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against the ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at the funny idea and his argument five million times .
this approach applies to everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
and all of this leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and where the audience has popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- made his beginning on youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today , we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind when he was in the march of the communicators in saigon , as he must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now mocking his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken through history .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red in the lake .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film , saga glided a boat still on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put all the way around the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear they had was pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
when i was a prisoner , my sister and i would have drunk her and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the failure of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like that again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we settled in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the smells from the ladder bars came from the rest of the world .
and the fetuses of broken english were swapped between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double-layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , the new things that always came out of the second hand .
two strands for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this , when someone visited the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; close eye , &quot; and here and there are mural paintings : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something went up in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came , so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , and then she did a cosmetic education , and she opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and unflexible , and troubled children , caught between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one of them , i was the classic asian student who was making unquestionable demands for himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak in places that she had never heard of , and in housing , whose existence she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have closed every single day as they &apos;ve been for 20 years by telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we were climbing the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youth and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine is running on high performance .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagnish .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the shoe &quot; doesn &apos;t go , &quot; which was an inconsistent challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i was cooking a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without the support of her husband , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to court , and she was an advocate in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turned out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories , and we assured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you look at who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to our way .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manufactured defect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life , which is courageously drifting every wave , the unbiased , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother here today is in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
so the wires are heating slightly , and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much riding road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , there &apos;s a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones give birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more amazing if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we overlist our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot from the same height and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges to the individual images , photographic deprivation , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a fishery trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we repaired them , repaired them .
and yes , i even colored the house on the top of the island red to make it look swedish .
so to get to a realistic outcome , it &apos;s going to go from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major listener .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it puts a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
and they &apos;re also called off my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a glimpse of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump up to my wlan-waage , and people talk to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer pressure , group forced to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to smoke patients .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play some kind of game together to control their health better .
next week , this is coming to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , not only can they take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start hugging patients on the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things that we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way , these accidents are again rejecting the debate about the value of science and engineering at such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
these could be copper services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us do this , and try to improve health not just something , but take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to tell you about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... pay attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be described by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to overwhelm the soul of the living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , defended the useless experiments of his apprentice , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumphs are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it may take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is pretty much everything that they actually hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peace scorps for computer freaks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to the city hall .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban employees .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freeing him up when he &apos;s locked in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire fight when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , and we had the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open up these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik sophiels-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed up the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to open it up when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it spreads rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people will open up the burial sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread frictionlessly , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
it usually takes a few years to get software .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three people two and a half months .
it was about a method that parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that has cost the taxpayers two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spreads from rarely , is a kind of a shot before the bug on the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should be .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a saled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about community rats .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called pray , love -- that , unlike all my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is going to skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i was refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- refused to the demise !
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get the government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white people go to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very concerned about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how many times did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government to reflect our values and fulfill our needs , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write your whole life on and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupation movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the financial reform legislation .
that &apos;s not being politically active , that &apos;s bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave our children .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting about who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to open a fire hydrant , to hunt weeds , to turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , will we be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to never succeed ? &quot;
usually my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single , boring slide .
... could you just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows a data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights again .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph is going to be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology was going to continue as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to take this craftsmanship and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but that &apos;s not going so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale increases exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of what it is .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
something like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is slowly accepting ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was a future somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that right now it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple calculation of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , yes .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was smashing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t about living in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside , and divided faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in a way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet has learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this insane , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information to store over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came out was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same writing .
and every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that we can write , just for pleasure , even in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white powder here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the demise of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would ever know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities of cells emerged .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level on which evolution occurred was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step has happened within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i ask myself , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning happened within the period of time of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than through this evolutionary period of time .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could take place within a time learning framework .
what happened after that was that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving gruesome sounds of me , hoping to create a similarly confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , present it .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in this direction .
telephones , computers , video obstacles , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel like they &apos;re doing ?
you also saw tys &apos; little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve rapid the timeline again .
the first steps in history that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give this machine over , and the machine does something that goes far beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these randomly chosen instructions , run all the programs , and then finally choose the ones that are the closest to my presentations . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so find programs that can be the most likely number .
of course , the chance of randomly chosen instructions is very small that by accident , they &apos;re going to sort numbers , so i think none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them may be lucky enough to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my prescription .
store them off , delete the rest .
now , reproduces all the remaining ones that the numbers have best sorted .
and it &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how do you do it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluating them again .
maybe lead some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can run through evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you do the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map , and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &apos; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists have not received the reputation of alcohol addicted manic depressed people over the centuries .
it allows us to do things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we &apos;re going to take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time , as a single-cell organisms have evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this call , mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i find it very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at the time , we jumped into a car and we swirled over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , the young and often died by your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna was thirst , he took a bow , shot into the ground and water .
now we &apos;re doing this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to enable magic instead of killing .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and let the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book here and every world becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody say that , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve accepted the notion that creativity and suffering are somehow related , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of fees and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras chambers for thousands of years in an old bold book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that confronts new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways that magic can connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with this ? because with just one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in the social settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trancestate , the glowing coal without burn , an astonishing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in such a way that it holds when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them take over to the next century .
she was also the starting point of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very strongly .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
and she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative encouragement .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room , staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this went on for 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me by the hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to shrink this dark path of conjecture -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down , and she looked at me , and she said , &quot; i want you to know i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; the next thing i want you to do is to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack of beer with me , my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she assumed , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . now we do it , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked at me in the face and said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still doing crazy about the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is reviewed by the world as the work that came after the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren that they were special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in jail .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , abandoned on currency or with conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that &apos;s much better to treat them when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be quite pleased with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling the right to vote when they &apos;re sentenced .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as before the election legislation .
the silence is earth-numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , there are lifelong sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is : did a human being deserve to die for a crime that he had ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we found for innocent comes out of the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , were the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly with an airplane , if for nine planes that would pick up , one would fall off .
but somehow we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue to write , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in the history of our nation , we have to do with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the racism and decades of the racially-motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to preserve a safe distance between me and my very natural climb about how the reaction will be to the written .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , they can never be there . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models for this last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more sensible ideas about how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we will ever speak for the systematic killing of people .
it would be unconscious of us to consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , when the charged black is and the victim knows -- in the same states where the body is borrowing yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but in the end , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deployment , limitation .
i think it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to pass in a complex world .
for me , it means time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe , in the end , things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said this .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities need to be involved in .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch you deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white man , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women would come together and just talk .
occasionally , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocent convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine divine spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be a braver .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
it &apos;s known by socrates that he believed he had a demonstration that would tell him from a farther distance .
if someone takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not in the things that we &apos;re developing , not in our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re starting to understand the truly amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people returned to an isolated volcanic massive rise above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of bodily creative mind , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who is supposed to be in court as an adult .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this contract , and the headline was , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my contract , i explained that misconduct of the state sanctity and the police and the failures were considerable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country , that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy contract or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i had not only written him , but sent him to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be literally living in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and the artist at work would sort of help invisible and make the result of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i went up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered into my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office workers .
the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came into the courthouse with a very concerned face , and he sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and it was disturbing that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is wiping out , but that it &apos;s increasing justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not completely evolved as humans , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is linked to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i just want to say to those of you who see this as well , just say , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a volksdecision in this spring , which is actually about trying to do an effort to redirect some of the money that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all fatalities don &apos;t end with an arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t look at it all for you , and everybody knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , for the theft of good , rather than forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string to vibrate here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit of a laugh .
famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pepper spray of the police .
four : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of the day , our senses are catching much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it &apos;s sorting and enveloping all the information in the search for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices , seven days a week , 24 hours a day , all of these negative messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , the average income of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and also , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have decreased by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we keep increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these are technologies , and they &apos;re growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes an information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , makes a big leap , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic process on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
cloud-computing , something that my friends at autodesk call infinite computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet to democratize , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask students to create companies , products and services that can positively affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to burden them up to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and platin .
this is why the dome of the aluminum monument was made of aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , prashes to the surface of the earth .
this disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , you &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
this was published last month with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are ice , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology-supported innovation that we have today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just consider that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what we expect in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaners or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe returning to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic shots in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , never heard before .
how about giving the oppressed , wherever you are , a voice to pay attention and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that today , human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant of the business director in a rehab clinic , and at night was the best protein orderer in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply feathers to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time , so that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns to statistics , and to use it to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 beats .
that means beat the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 300ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what you call a 4,00ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your home doctor has a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re sending each of them , including me , to the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but no one is thinking about the details of how to do this .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little dawn in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane capability of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubula azidose .
and all the time , i collected more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to give feedback to my top doctor .
i studied woman printer , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made sounding sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it &apos;s filling this gradually , so the shortcut came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water tablets , so they leave the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , sometimes he can feel really paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the listener and do what i should have done , which would have been a phone call to my top doctor to explain it to him , so that he would have had a chance to make his own image .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the base of the glacier for 18 years , and two periods of each nine years , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in their leisure mother &apos;s lap , they &apos;re now spending metamorphorically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all of her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
and by sending them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacked by self-confidence that i asked the nurse who was taking care of the woman printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgence papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency care is particularly because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse asked the question .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she barely breathed , and she walked blue .
that would roll over the country to you .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure up .
they attached them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was crushed into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped she would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to what happened .
on the other day , they listed her -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i made a suggestion , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one swells you on a conspiracy , and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it and gives you a terrible discussion , but when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swear that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do recovery and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way that i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , he was very dear .
she knew that in such a moment she could only do one , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it was .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection , and never again made a mistake that the voice could stumble .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was only about the fact that she had to get quickly enough to a piece of paper and a pencil , so she could catch it when it went through her , and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a full rage .
it was a lot going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the racks , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even as he walked out of the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it was going to move across the country and , as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature rage ? &quot;
it turns out that he &apos;s infected a streptococtococcus .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rachens , but the upper respiratory pathways , and it causes the locking of the breathing .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold twice .
there &apos;s a lot of this , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no shortage in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one of them i thought he had kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague , in the revision of the patient , found a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluide to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to look at him as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they were doing surgery , and they were doing well .
both of these cases nailed me , asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my blocks have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then -- she said -- it was like having her other hand reach for it and get it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i have the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so that they don &apos;t do the same ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about someone who was talking about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support and start telling them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before they were really uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off the wrong leg , believe me that i had trouble looking in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them , the ones that constrain sleep deprivation , and the ones that don &apos;t have any limitation , the ones that have bad results and the good results .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we put those who make errors out of medicine , we &apos;re going to have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first papers that i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors happen every day , where one out of 10 medications is either a false or wrong dose , where hospital infections are becoming more and more and more numerous and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , there are about 24,000 canadians dying of common errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine decides the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as closely as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all this time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with breast pain .
and then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat it , and i give it a little bit of alcoholic breath , and all of a sudden the story is transformed with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this , in summary , is inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i was taught , and you put out all the flawed health professionals , there &apos;s no one left at the end .
when i heard that , i thought that was kind of creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the boss of the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show the microphone to him .
and then their pupils are expanding , they &apos;re bumped in front of their head , and then they &apos;re looking down and swallowing , and they &apos;re starting to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that they &apos;re able to do .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white for his humanity , accepts her , is not proud of making mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning from them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to make a mere , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people are filling the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people are also making mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups that make it easier to find mistakes that make people inevitable , and also enable them to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for them , and that specifically for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day at the same time , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think that he was chasing , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my masonry species , sometimes this thing has ripped .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the changing waistline .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a few mangroves was surrounded .
there were buntbarks of about 20 inches , black-and-white mouths , a subspecies of the buntbarian .
the fisheries of these bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on average and earned good in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew up to five centimeters .
they had been genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also fortunate to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my participation in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fish promotion meant countries that were already starting 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
and i went on it , and we made revelations all over the southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the trumber pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came to deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you do a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case -- a hard reason or soft coral is becoming a matchy crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we started a living one .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of debris is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but actually keeping ourselves in mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and in the end , they just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s our goal now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem was people who were certainly living in predatory societies , killing animals , and who were only aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurrence of animals .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a great loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to shine on the hangs of the amazingly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they &apos;ve learned in the abstract is confirmed in amazing glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there is , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain , who was watching big fish in this area , can &apos;t be used , or fisheries scientists don &apos;t usually be valued , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it calls something that has been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , so he turns &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often inspiring , is very difficult for him to grasp , and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s letting it go , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this , and how much that would constrain the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that clearly leaves the page to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using the technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the existing online problems today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjordan sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegal by , for example , using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror , two months ago , was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that today it &apos;s more likely that we &apos;re going to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest group of attacks we can see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main flu groups : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who do it , but the last group are nations , governments who run the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to sign insolvence , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to ask if he could make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in the aftermath of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate requires , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now , we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can do it if you &apos;re in a foreign .
certification agencies hack and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 was the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , there was a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could -- in a very large scale -- capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans found , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty safe to tap your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojan to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write down a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right we give away is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in a position to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connected stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squawks somebody else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them around the wrong way .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
they put a blue on a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wire or solve , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had , for example , designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and we told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t cause anything as an anger and left him where he came from , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed the way i worked , and it saved me a little bit .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of these graves of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . that &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are the younger brothers who are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered tom talking in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript , and i spoke my commentary towards a blank corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then the hell with it .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i &apos;d like to leave you with protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered to monthly with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like time to stand still , and the dancer would come through a kind of pforte , and he would do nothing but he &apos;d ever done before -- 1,000 nights before , but everything would come together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be human .
it was lit up from the inside and illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what it was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquitos conquered south spain , they brought this practice . the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , olé , that you still hear when you &apos;re fighting and flamenco dances .
whenever we think about innate and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old framework of the noble wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical : allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer carries a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never go back to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name again when he turns , but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- from an unthinkable source for a reader time of your life that &apos;s passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think , surely in the last few months , while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly anticipated successor of my descended success .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about this is , don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you &apos;re on the side decides , for a moment , to show a smoke of wonder through your effort , then olé !
and if not , still dance your dance .
and it &apos;s olé ! it &apos;s all for you .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria swamps of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
it &apos;s olé ! for you , despite all of this , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the lower 48 states , has shrunk 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because global warming is looking at the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s looking up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we cross that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane , methane itself from the water .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another flat lake last winter with another group of work .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat rush heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind that will be or determine their destiny will become a very different person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be carried off .
this is an annual diving river .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through the land ice sheet , it goes into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adding .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has emerged over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes up there that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a bunch of inheritance , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austrosity around the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have increased in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day in the oceans .
look closely at the area of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both beyond the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be defeated .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal dustries and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i went home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow of america in our entire country .
this happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the place of hukuk and the curved heavens and the cannibalic spirits that live in the north of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers remain in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , a part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
that &apos;s why we set it to the top line to spend a significant amount of money to get a commercial action on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here is changing everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
take america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
new america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
supply america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , and we have to get a long way .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab the hands , take the blades and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my professional patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we were to use computers that , instead of a mouse cursor , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and physically grab data and put it in the way we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can detect their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other and perceive the enemies of our relationship with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video review , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , it makes you interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the indians , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as color pots , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can throw back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i do with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomami , as you sniff this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
sniffing this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , and being saturated by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickster twist .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat them by just holding a ton siftable to a sequence siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic ethirea with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as hallucinogens , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then even more over-ordered effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable , and put it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter with the barrel , for a little more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i can expand them or shrink them in the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because , of course , through a human intestine enzyme called monoamine oxidase , they &apos;re denatured .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by tipping the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better to how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways that we work on in our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be connected to a few other chemicals that the mao denaturize .
i &apos;ve got to get a little bit out of it , and that &apos;s biohacking is about modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been looking at biohacking for a few years now , and i &apos;ve started this because i just wanted to know more , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology in general is now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , now , is extremely important and much , much more important in the future .
there are so controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there are now craig venter in the u.s. , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are things that have come in completely day-to-day life , but most people are not aware of , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which is in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that is necessary to potentially power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this , this technology , i just kept going in there .
now , why hack ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then in the media it will always be , yes , the hackers will break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started like , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a problem of access , which is how things simplify , so any problem , to throw up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , and there &apos;s also a whole bastler scene that uses electronics circuits to do all kinds of things .
and now , in the direction of biology , i want to take this metaphor that comes out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i found that incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
it &apos;s actually only taken two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people all over the world .
this is a more artistic orientation , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers , and working with scientists , trying to deal with these technologies and ask questions and work creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the united states , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and they &apos;re also being asked , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility , where everybody can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for a long time than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics , and they &apos;re combining it in a very remote way .
a group of ankara , who i met a while ago , who have this is a group of students who wanted to convey more to the public what they learned in college , and they &apos;ve done so on street fests , and they &apos;ve tried to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and you can also go to society and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you into it ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology , you kind of need material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab is that these are sort of dedicated machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary , because every coffee machine actually has more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really the way it is .
and s o with this premise with this premise then , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cooker , a heat plate , and , yes , so soup brothers , and then grew bacteria , works .
so anyone who &apos;s been gaming a soup that he &apos;s left for too long has been done .
i then tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought a second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did some d.n.a analysis , tried to do a father &apos;s test , which is like this / d.n.a fingerprinting , back home .
now that shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but .
down here in the picture , you can see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s this kind of admitted garage with all kinds of lab scaffolding that the university has been doing , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and it &apos;s also doing pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s what people are doing on their own , all the way to large , larger organizations that are already doing this more formal in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but it &apos;s always the approach that it &apos;s supposed to be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , o.k , we &apos;re now here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founder , and said o.k , we have to really meet now , also meet real , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and shortly after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and then , it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , their and what moves them , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t have that , but that &apos;s kind of , i think , it &apos;s pretty well done , and people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest that seems to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get this , then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , turned the lens off , then you have a microscope that &apos;s about four hundred times bigger .
you see that down there .
and then we screwed a d.v.d brenner apart , and we pulled the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
this is another project that came out of the french group in paris , which worked out , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got this kind of brain wave measuring device , like e.e.g , or something like that , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what happened .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fancy project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this paternity story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , d.n.a , making fragments so that you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the crime scene , they go and collect some hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyists , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve put two builders together , and they &apos;ve said , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve got open source , so free hardware , electronics , and they &apos;re going to assemble this device , and they &apos;re now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think , kind of , six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it becomes more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i made them glow like this .
so the device that you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , but it &apos;s pretty much looked like this , on a branch like this , the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure on it , and that was the pressure too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juicer and i attached it to it .
so , it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in the full moon and you sing them in a different pitch .
a juicer , if you make it full of water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six .
and then you can accelerate the particles very much enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros up , or something like that , sahnespender about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , this is also , at the moment , the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if , as an informed citizen , you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society and talk to you , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
and that then fires under the headwords of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who at least officially agreed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know some of you who haven &apos;t agreed .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
partly with these hackerspaces , so these places are put together .
