you know , one of the great senses of traveling and one of the great joys of ethnography is to live with the people who remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
and that &apos;s at the very beginning .
now , the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the indigenous , they look at them as orginian and colorful , but they sort of narrow to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , continues .
as i said , it just started two thousand ideas .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-10 quarters of funding .
and this is now a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we hope , of course , that we then spread the same way , and then we &apos;re similarly connected , so that there are more people involved in it .
and i would invite each time to deal with it and also try something .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a network of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important to the benefit of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
how do we actually work to people ?
so , the fact is that you will remember the 20th century , in 300 years , not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era where we were against , and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
this is a question that really drives me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and in front of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media , so they can use these interactive media , so they can create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that interactive media in us addresses archaic , cognitive models , which are paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long time ago , and that we can reproduce them just by interactive media .
and that &apos;s very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-technology that you &apos;re facing , that it actually brings you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain that for a second .
archaic cognitive models , and that is the models that we have acquired in the pre-industrial times .
one of these archaic models is that we have a fundamentally natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a second and try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
all cultures have been involved in the dance of new possibilities .
the second thing is that since then these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very painful , even though we &apos;re using a codified language today .
and the third area , which is actually explaining itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the reasoning of linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we now feel the linearity as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world ?
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house that you live in ?
that &apos;s not what we &apos;re going to be able to do right away , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in it , and they look at how many doors there are .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
and the problem is not technology itself .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do that all the time .
and that ability to virtualize the reality that people needed in the pre-industrial times also bitter , because they had nothing at all .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have any photographics .
they had no mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory occurred .
in this head , knowledge was reviewed , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they also passed on knowledge .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being less on sioux than they were bow and arrow tasks than the americans stopped being americans when they were tasking horses and horses .
and so it &apos;s also so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yes , that &apos;s right .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , the human being was simultaneously media producer and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but i &apos;ll come back to that in a second .
central tools of information mediation have been stories ever since .
shamanes , priests , so-called knowledge watchmen , were hired to keep knowledge in stories .
not change and technology threatening the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of rule .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very much related to stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still combine a hundred hours a year with the receptions of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life on the recipe of stories until the achievement of the greatness .
now we think our love of stories depends on us sitting on our parents &apos; lap as a child .
no , no , far missing .
that goes way back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s particularly impressive is that we &apos;ve been anchoring by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought an example of the north american tribe of the nootka-indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very inselfish area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what we call lead maps .
you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in that , of the australian native people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead maps , they &apos;ve used these gene nanny sunglines , or grief paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be depicted over songs .
where the language was subordinated by the subordinated rang .
that means you navigated over sound and over rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , also allowed you to defragment these songs , and put them together and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing anymore to get from the top of a to b ?
anyway , not to navigate .
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
what happened there ?
this is what &apos;s happening in the gendary machine age .
we &apos;ve been moving in the so-called bird age before .
what happens is the machine age , and what happens is the book , and what happens is it &apos;s the photographics .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories on external media .
on the book and on the image .
so , unfortunately , we have a little bit of lost virtual .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that these mass media , he means the book and the image , so not television , the internet , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media of our memories have fossilized and our ability to virtualize .
let &apos;s make a little bit of a difference .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnic , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and in many places , celebrated as part of a developing strategy .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has influences on our thinking and on our memory ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re being spelled over the centuries more and more by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories to .
we no longer produce ourselves .
we have an abstract language .
we don &apos;t think about it anymore in pictures , and we don &apos;t think of it as images anymore , but we encode our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linearly .
and we accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , such as the non-linearity .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibets if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
what we &apos;ve remained is the storytelling .
still , we are very , very arrested by the storytelling as information mediation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vote age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyberage .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyber-age , they bring us these opportunities back to rediscover our ability .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , it &apos;s a concept that lets us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which means our affinity to virtualize , to feel the virtual as something normal , natural , is addressed again .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics of which you hear -- 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes -- 1.2 million people who were murdered during the cultural revolution by the cathers .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving in non-existing , virtual worlds , all after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambient , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond to an intelligent person .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , inspiration and intuitions , which have been defined by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelorwork of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so that you can talk to the two about the project at the break .
and i brought this project back as an example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed again .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
the father of this young man was identified as the follower of the panel lama .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people in front of any console or that they &apos;re playing with some console in their hand .
anyway , they do that in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s meant that i explore the outside world , so that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize i have to cut so much .
and then you can explain that a lot better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is , i discover a city by looking at which places have been twittered positive or negative .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is , i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city in this way .
that meant that he was killed instantly during the chinese invasion .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is a little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vow age , and that have gone a little bit disgusted in the machine age , that can be returned with what we call the cyber age , and that , in this way , through complex , technological new products , we can actually not get into the future , but actually come back to our roots .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very pleased to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this bag is a talking bag , and mine is going to talk .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness , bringing people to nepal .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how the curiosity also changes our thinking , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to reboot and so on .
this is a whole series of things you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often pushed into this n research mester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to wonder why do all of these forms begin to engage with natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on and so forth .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more natural , more user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually for us humans , of course , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
and before the background , i was in the field of natural user interface design , so the next generation in the human computer , where the relationship of the human computer is how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer to the digital assistant .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
so i got busy with this , when is what &apos;s natural or intuitive ?
maybe we have to look back at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , briefly , we &apos;re moving from the third into the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern into computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society through language .
that means that you found yourself by talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , you &apos;d move into the same cave , or in other areas , you &apos;d form cities , or you &apos;d create villages , and you &apos;d sort of create tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very vivid .
you also had to learn , so no toddler can talk about nature , but we learn it sukessive and proportionate , of course .
he was smuggled into prison at the age of two , to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
and that was a huge scream at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and i pour it in stone , and i manipulate it .
so , depending on how i kiss and when i kiss , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a alive kind of coverage .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got involved .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today , primarily .
this is just the printing and print script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just a monkey where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , then the afterwards they want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we come to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now , that we &apos;re involved in doing this .
this , of course , completely confuses us , because on the one hand , we see new media , social media , facebook , etc . , etc .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , doesn &apos;t say that in the lasagna horse meat and no beef is any more or other phenomena , which is that i want to do this right now , and i want to do it .
the sister who gave this brave act was brought into an education camp .
and these two worlds are banging together , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , it rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at a global level .
we understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not , if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , as possible , as intuitive as possible , but also total transparency .
as you knew in the village at the time , who has what happens to whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this extension of ourselves through these mobile devices at a global level .
whether it &apos;s that we know global clusters and we &apos;re getting faster and faster and better and better .
just as it used to happen in the village .
one day , she came out of adversity to a armband of maos , and for seven years she had to go into a hard job camp .
in the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , because what does it mean , for us , what &apos;s natural , what is it that we may have lost , but also , instinctively , what is it that makes a difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly , so that anyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with what that means , and not just change it , but it &apos;s going to be different , but it &apos;s going to be better .
and when is , of course , a little intuitive , and how can i influence it as a creator and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun , and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re going to be busy , even in the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i just look inside the self .
and what does it really look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does that mean , of course , intuitively and how do our channels work in perception , and how does cognitive processing work ?
because steve jobs once said you need to get deep to understand how works .
the suffering of tibets can be intolerable , but the dissolving spirit of people is something unforgettable .
so you really have to look in detail if i want to make something usable or intuitive , which means at the core .
and you can see that a is our seven senses , most people think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven recognized , and i &apos;m sure that in the near future , there &apos;s the next awake sense , and as an extension , there &apos;s also our self .
and look at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what &apos;s information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but not at all what it means , then , detail .
but i have to understand , at the core , when does information become information , when does data become information , and from information , so that i know how to make things as intuitive or naturally palpable afterwards .
and of course , how does design affect the perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper is , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
so much more natural , in a vessel , but i see , kind of , where is salt and pepper in there .
and we &apos;re really in the end of a choice , do we want to live in a monochromatic world of the monotonies or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
and when i say to someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll be thinking about where &apos;s in the right .
and just intuitively on the left , and i hope that no sugar is in there , will give the salt accordingly .
but also , our perception of ourselves , how it fails us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , although that &apos;s not the case at all , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
so it &apos;s a circle .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear , that as we move towards a thread , custom , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced to an embedded way of thinking , but that one day we woke up from a dream , and forgot that there have ever been other possibilities .
a second circle already begins to correlate or associate certain similarity .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
and then when i add a halboval , we suddenly see not just another unit , which is circle , circle , and yet we see a unit , we don &apos;t see three parts , a circle , a circle , another circle .
this is called the design law , or the gestalt psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have the first semester , the great design laws .
the design law of the nearby , the shape law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget again .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things really intuitively , as well as possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting in vision .
sounds very , very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking forward .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see the first time from the back to the front .
and that is , they projy an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , for example , circles .
that is , we &apos;re only projying our vision before we see it , and then we put it back into our seheater to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got this cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve got what you want to see .
and that &apos;s there , and that &apos;s what comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , really , look again , and be sure if what you see is what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and what are going on in millisecond areas of these things .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture of you .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment we were designing the cult of the sacred , which was replacing the poetry of the shame through the prose of priesthood and creating hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- only 10,000 years ago .
that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see something ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it anymore , because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on , now you see it all the time .
that is , i &apos;ve actually dressed you up now , that you can &apos;t see the pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning you in a very short period of time to see this dog over and over again in this forbidden image .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projecting forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which then , in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but here in this rosane mass , are going to be corresponding .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , then i can also bridge very well wait times when i &apos;m busy doing somebody with three seconds .
that &apos;s what he has to process as a present .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
then it goes into the past , and so i can break very elegantly wait times , for example , on the computer if i know this phenomenon .
what does five milliseconds take ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period when you fall in love .
that means pay attention , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at as long , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what can happen properly .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
and as we see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of ensuring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it in a way .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
of course , the designers are not just concerned with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive bias , but , primarily , the subject of human-object relations .
so how does a human being deal with certain things reconcile .
there are products , linguistically , the practical functions , so formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions where i know exactly where i have to grasp .
but there are also symbolic functions , why is there anybody for such a little bit of a stick , where there &apos;s hardly anything in it , so horrendous sums of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
there we are , more of course , on the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re dealing with as a creator .
back to my actual natural user interface , and the theme , which is , of course , also is usability .
usability always means how quickly can i achieve a certain goal , or how can a user , in a certain context of use , be effective , efficient and satisfying , achieve a goal .
so it &apos;s more like the norm .
how can i make something possible to use ?
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the ability to be what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance of being able to thrive all humans and gardens , and there are great moments of optimism .
can i use that directly , or do i need a manual , or do i need to have a corresponding training for it .
and it &apos;s less usable or usable .
that i do it in a different way , and i don &apos;t mean it &apos;s better hand-feasible .
you also have to understand that .
and then , in part , if you look at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is less intuitive or not usable , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , although it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability has not only been done since apple is a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i want to use technological devices to human beings .
why ?
because we &apos;re usually in this new kind of usability , which is the natural user ínfaces , for example , five times faster on average of our goal .
you have to imagine , if you do something of the classic softrware , you need five hours , and you have to do this new kind of natural software just for an hour .
it doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be allowed to go home for four hours , but your employer , or anyone , is going to notice how he &apos;s going to do them with the four hours .
here &apos;s a picture i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal-jagd with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to get certain things as well .
so if we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
then the next ones , which have already been working with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so no longer zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
this made it much more user-friendly , but of course , it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to do the behavior than what it looks like .
that &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that , all of a sudden , the appearance is increasingly unimportant for success , the usability is becoming an application .
and if i go one step further into these natural users interfaces , where i &apos;m voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , not by mouse , and cursor , things have to control , i &apos;m even faster , and i &apos;m even more immediate .
the canadian government has not always gone very well with the inuit , and over the 50 years , in the course of the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move to settlements .
but that also leads me to the point where things are going to be more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish my little friend back here and look at what does that mean from the perspective of cognition , when is it really something intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always a little intuitive for us humans , if i have to think about it very little .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , he wants to make it reasonably simple .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , i can use that as a creator .
that is , i can actually transfer an intuitive human action model into a software and make the software much more user-friendly .
of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already said it ?
this is the so-called osit model .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
that &apos;s what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and stands for more oriented , select , inform , transfer .
it makes each of you all the time , but it makes it unconscious and kind of intuitive or partly instinctive .
the model is already being exploded in the womb and is intercultural , so it works in the world at young and old , and we &apos;re used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to 70-odd thousand times each of us according to activity , so what you &apos;ve found is that it &apos;s then less often punished than the day .
now i can orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer it into an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , a action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of user friendship than that of transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transmit that now , for example , in which i orient as a supervision , select as a choice , inform in the case , it comes up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transfer it somewhere , or send it to somebody , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
the family who was afraid of his life took all the guns and all the tools .
you know , everybody &apos;s eaten pies .
overview : now i &apos;m interacting with the object , can zoom back out , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , can now filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than when , you know , hierarchical websites or other mechanisms can sort of make these things available .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an astonishingly knowledgeable species .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to close with a and again the hint , and designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you care about what the divorces you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents allowed you to play and touch more or less in the pottery , the more , kind of , your curiosity is , of course , woven .
and curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and who are curious are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold , they used it to be their advantage .
what i &apos;m about now is basically implementing this whole environmental discussion , world demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point here .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day they give off plus-sizes of about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorph mollusk through the world &apos;s ocean .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and abandon it .
the slides of their sled were originally made from fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
it &apos;s amazing that we &apos;re dealing with something that would actually be &quot; ne , &quot; but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have two years of phosphorus , and already , through phosphorus mining around the world , a lot more uranium is being put into the environment than in all the nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , 50 thousand tons of uranium has been distributed on our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little less harmful .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
the man &apos;s grandfather did not fear the arctic night or the waving storm .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way i would say , shake your child , just three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weights to the bathroom , our entire earth will be sooner or later a cemetery .
that &apos;s why thinking about the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
right now , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or calculating the square meter .
he swallowed out , put his pants down from seaweed and defeated in his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he formed them into the form of a knife .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than is reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem .
and everything is packaging or content .
for example , in the house trash , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of you in the forefront phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
it &apos;s balanced in china in a second .
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the federal knife , and when it was completely frozen , it amazes a dog with it .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs through the solid ingredients .
people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s the evidence , right ?
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
he had a dog in it , and he improvised a dish , he took the dog &apos;s skeleton , and improvised a sled , he spanned another dog , and he swapped over the ice shelves with the fecalien knife on the belt .
and if you talk to the people who talk to the people who exist , if you say , that &apos;s better , you &apos;re not there , they get refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , you say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it is , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , nobody likes termites , in so far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means that ants weigh much more than we do .
and because they work much harder physically than we do , and because they only live three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in the energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
that &apos;s how you can do something out of nothing .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are , what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , off-the-shelf has a program , up to 20 , you want to be here a climate-neutral , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means our whole intelligence means that we want to be grim as trees , right ?
yes ?
no tree is carbon neutral .
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
have you ever heard about this problem of overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grim as trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most strict bio- yes agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really need to go back in circles .
and so we &apos;re too many .
just about it .
that means we feel so guilty on earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-farming , there &apos;s no bioland , there &apos;s no natural progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrements to go back .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april 1999 , complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we make agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
directly , we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
for example , we do this in china , where we take the waste of it directly .
in china , a night sky is still called a honey pot , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we &apos;ve always been too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is the fact that the city has only taken over and over , but has never given back to the farmers .
and in the same way that the biosphere was widely deployed , it happened with the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
so the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to get their nutrients more and more away .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they get the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
it &apos;s an independent area . they all control minerals .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to civilization for five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting the food to stay until you pick the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
now , the beauty of this is , if you do this , you make agriculture , you create biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , you can get a farmer about a thousand and a half hundred dollars , and you can wait for that , chickens and pigs , and cultivators and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing is that the crime rate in the favelas goes down to about nine percent .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be really little bad .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recovery with its inhabitants .
we can support them to be good .
that &apos;s , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this , by the design that a farmer can just farm them .
that is , the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred and a half of them in the last 20 years , none of them have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter of alkiller , and then the facility would be ruined over years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people to be really little bad .
we can support them to be good .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not removed at all .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something about it , write down , in germany , most suitable by all the enlightenments that are in frfurt .
unfortunately , they don &apos;t in the open stream , but maybe they can help the frankfurgers a little bit .
because the frankfurter plant could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been in holland over three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
but we need that in total .
they &apos;re the home countries of somebody .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seventh percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus incidence .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and twenty countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy sources .
but you &apos;re not going to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s to ask what &apos;s the right thing to do .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
yes ?
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , are part of the geography of hope .
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you angry her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s really effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
there we go .
that &apos;s not exactly correct scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this lighting , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one thing that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
ultimately , what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians can never do anything .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the seed mud a little bit better , and to put it in the burn system , and to lose all the materials for cycles , but to ask , how do you close the cycles ?
imagine mozart efficient .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
yes ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website is getting 35 million hits every month .
that is , all that matters in life is not to save , to avoid , to reduce .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is just the right thing , right ?
in every place you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities for life again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
as we think from the north .
there is every footprint disadvantaged .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
156 nations send our tv channel .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do that with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
then i say , excuse me , yes ?
our magazines are read by millions .
that &apos;s the minimum .
so don &apos;t save , deplete , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust , if you see in italy , the people in the high bow are pouring out the coke can from the car .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun thing to do .
it &apos;s a form of re4 behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is fluid at room temperature .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
and we do a series of travels to the ethnosphere , where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonder , that they will be blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one by one , they will embrace the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a chance of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants , so that they &apos;re contributing by throwing away biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
for example , no biologist would claim that 50 percent or more of all species are just before extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biological diversity -- is almost not what we &apos;re known as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
a tv set or a washing machine , and they only use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that veile , like shoe soles , like brakes , like automobiles , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are only used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
yes ?
thank you .
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of crochet , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we figure out what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we gave microsoft as part of a precise year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either locally or remove with huge amounts of visual data .
these are the first shoes to put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian paw , and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of these are composable .
and of course , if we can , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they &apos;re helping , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve been changing the chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure that they &apos;re really going to stay here .
so , help me a little bit .
but it goes .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can get seamlessly and continuously , switching , rearranging in any way .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now that , if you break , you can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s designed to go back into the circulation .
that too , so in every store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
do you remember the wing again ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
if at the moment , that &apos;s garbage .
all over the place , these diapers are close .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s on the front of the deponia , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , you can go back to cellulosic base , you can plant hundreds of fifty trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the very beginning .
so we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
it &apos;s sort of a behavioral poop print .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this one , for example , is a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a domain of 300 megapix .
yes , sort of .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything .
i started an institute on this .
there are a lot of people working there , and they can all engage .
there &apos;s an extra consensus to make cradle to cradle , where everyone can participate .
so not saving , reducing , reducing , not debt management , but smart waste .
does that make you curious ?
thank you .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
the work of the interpreter .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i &apos;m writing that as an interpreter , i &apos;m a translator , so in the english word sense .
interprets are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to transfer the word into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and the wordscape , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already from german to translation in english , more knowledge can require , if you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange , though , for laymen , what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have just the written notes .
you think that the composer , in the notes , has written everything that he came up with .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly peculiar , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape , the fragrance of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is just to remember not to hear the sawling of the wind .
that is , the interpret has to translate these inexplicit notes of grades into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today , i want to translate what else i do musically , which is to interpret , again , into a verbal language .
so basically a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally important for me to translate the translation of the translation .
so the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notes written in the process have the function of the letters of a writing .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
because these are just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
this is bleak house of thickens . every column is a chapter .
you can only see the meaning of the letters when you can use the language .
so you need to learn the music language for at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there are also restraints , whether you learn it for exploitation , just passively understands , or you can talk actively , to the musical native language .
the work of the interpreter begins similar to a theater director .
after you first chose a piece to play , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re first exploring the recovery of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the daycare , the notes , the words , the thoughts of the composer themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you make comparison .
the movement is to write it .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a representation of texts and no image .
how did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
all of this is interesting to me .
you think in that time , by looking at contemporary images , for example , or reading literature .
but over time , you also have a rich knowledge as an interpreter to play the composer that you play more and more , and it makes you easier to think in and feel in it .
the composer becomes more and more of the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece is becoming more and more of my personal cause of playing it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but only a framework , i &apos;m now turning this framework into refilling it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what might be written between this framework .
i &apos;m playing out explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
now for me and for the composer back then and what you might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase , it makes sense , because i feel it myself , because it &apos;s coming out of my own right now .
it has to be coherent to me in this and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been reexperiencing .
and the key indicator for this is the extinction of languages .
how to reexperience a happy new day , although always with the same rituals of life , get up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same piece over and over again .
i got older again a day that changes seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i perceive the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me and all of this is affecting my experience with the composition .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
and then the same thing happens in a good , appropriate conversation .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
you put a new idea in there , and it will be answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have experienced the way the music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the way that i &apos;m going to play at that moment .
i can &apos;t play as much as i can in 20 years today .
so i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and so i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to have some color pots thrown out , but i &apos;m going to get new ones .
have a nice example of this .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jbarrigen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
this is a realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was fortunate enough to meet him very early , at age three , and so i had been on his classes at the time of my school .
i was seventh , when i went back to one of his courses , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a piece later .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballade for me .
this is such a portable part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
there he was cheating , and he was like , &quot; you know ? &quot;
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
he was about six years old .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
well , with seventh , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have meaningful memories .
i &apos;m playing the piece again every few years , and it &apos;s changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
one example from a very different area : monet painted the serose x-times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the seroses in different ways , as he saw them , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the serose .
the x-ray interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
meanwhile , i &apos;ve been older than chopin at the age of two and a half , when he wrote the piece .
he &apos;s only lived ninety-nine years .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paperwork or a newspaper , which is a kind of a multi-size medium .
and it &apos;s important for me to keep looking into the notes , even though i mean being able to memorize them .
to keep twins directly with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
often the music class is so that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk one word .
you learn to find the sounds in the notes on the instrument .
if all the fingers are moving in time and right like it is in the notes , sound comes out that sounds like music together .
we also did something at the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
when that happens freely , the student gets the next hard piece .
interpretation is hardly spoken in the beginning education .
all right , there &apos;s a presto in the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and senior signs , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know here .
but even if you put those data in , it &apos;s still a little bit technical .
and yet , it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added extra content .
namely , to make music on the instrument , to do your own musical doing and to feel already there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing , because the parents didn &apos;t do it , neither will they do it themselves .
it &apos;s like learning to talk .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to have it through another possibility , which is to make it sound through an instrument .
people who have never been singing have never felt instantly with their own bodies , what it &apos;s like to form a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
to sing our vocal chords , our hands and feet to dance .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm of the dance .
the constant narrative today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music anymore if you get bored with it .
it &apos;s no longer necessary to whistle or sing a song .
every single music is made platform when you &apos;re constantly sucked from the outside with music .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask is , can you not sing a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
both of them are not too late to start to find out whether they can &apos;t do it , or learn how to use these little muscles that make the vocal cords right .
because you can train that .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
or c , because they &apos;ve been coated to them that they &apos;re undigestible .
and i ask , how skillfully competent was this diagnosis ?
have you taken a second or third opinion , as they say today , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want nix to do with it .
what i would regret , though , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an unseen candidate .
but don &apos;t say it , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
i &apos;ll answer that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
and this really picks up these ideas to eliminate these constraints for the available place on the screen .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says it , i don &apos;t know if it tastes me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t give up on food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get into classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether it tastes you or not .
whether the music is too peppery or too sweet .
say what you feel .
over time , you get claims , and you want a little bit more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience to listen to it actively ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
a piece of art you never look at doesn &apos;t have a force to work .
we hope that that means no more pop-ups and other nonsense -- that should not be necessary .
the food that &apos;s been cooked by a chef or a chef , has to be eaten and not just looked at or recepted .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
if in an environment where adults make active music , or at least hear active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the kid plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
meanwhile , the instruments have evolved .
there was no piano at all as an instrument right now .
it was just not invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the soundscape of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the noises that the stream has had sound on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo cannot .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected as unplayful at the time .
so the composers depend on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so you can hear what you &apos;ve thought of in your mind .
and also , what you would think of today in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area as well .
or what i &apos;m thinking about today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been neither ther ?
and what did that feel like ?
suck .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v , w piesel , and i &apos;m wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have this big car ?
but these are all the streets in the united states .
now , that loses half the value in the first year .
and at all , you worked much less than i did .
why do i have to afford this little car ?
and then i come to mind immediately , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to get those uncomfortable feelings like neid just to disappear .
you can also try this in words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or something that is unconsciously familiar with you .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
on the top of nasa , it &apos;s a surplus image .
and then rocks up , so he &apos;ll shut them down .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie that i &apos;m talking about has to do with you deceiving yourself .
you need this lie to get a livelihood to get a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or also bring them down .
you need time .
this time , an anecdote that you may know is talking about .
let &apos;s get something else out now .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her at all .
picasso answered , just wait .
it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
at this point , and if you laugh , you realize how important this lie is and how much time you need to learn something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disturbed relationship with lying .
the artist is sharing with you something , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is sharing with you in such a portrait something that you get familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
and not only in art , in volcanoes , in mythology , it appears again in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility comes out of that real outcome , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of that real outcome .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here it is necessary to bring back what we understand under politically correctness .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us in deception without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the ancestry of man .
that the man should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband , and she said , that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that livelihood .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that exists on it , comparable to a rock , and whatever , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student in washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
we need to prevent people from getting knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slow this mechanism is going to resolve itself , and what the traces that it leaves , which lead to something other than this great image of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a propensity for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft &apos;s research , a very good collaboration .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healthier at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being uses the word &quot; moral judgment &quot; in a moral judgment , we should try to replace it with the word .
do that once , and then you learn the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that that &apos;s the real truth behind the outcome .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in the fireman .
they &apos;re interested in firemen .
but there are no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
and he signed up .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere , and you &apos;re delighted when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can only do when they fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that in the first of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but he can &apos;t say that out loud .
now a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious that jumps right away without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to make you sound much better for you and others .
so it &apos;s just the words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
you can see that if we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious , that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
i want to give you two , maybe three examples .
the first example assumes what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not a stopp of material , material nature .
and if you have people in front of you who are so persuasive that you have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they have been brought from the soul to life , then they imagine it as if the soul were such a spiritual framework about them , not from matter , themselves just from meat and blood , something stone , sort of built on earth , decomposable , unimportant , unimportant , yes .
and from that soul , you now think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima is called &quot; the latin , &quot; which is present in the air .
but the spatial order of images is actually important here .
and then , if that windpipe pops over humans , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive it as something that is necessarily present to our lives .
and if you have that premise , you understand the logic with which we experience that happiness to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can use a three-sentence .
three phrases you still know from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes us a logic .
that &apos;s the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
the computer vision-algorithms have collected these images together so that they could have the real space , where these images that were all taken close to the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things have all been spatially correlated .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
which is to lie so that you can just use this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim , there are no soul .
so the second sentence is , if claus is right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted him in particular here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of soul .
they say who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
and here you are feeling it .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
here &apos;s the logic coming out in this , yes , in this deception talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the kanzler is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the rabbit is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the cancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
i can say anything .
there are some that are much more spatial .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so if it &apos;s clear , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceptive consciousness immediately feels , and you can do something about that .
it depends on a third sentence , which has nothing to do with the first two sentences , which pretends to be the opposite of the first sentence already proven and assured .
because actually , we would have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic , which it &apos;s easy to use , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like it &apos;s got something to do with it , so we can save our livelihoods .
so , we pretend it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
i &apos;d like to just show one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , the photosynth technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious if you look at the environments that we have on the website .
we can continue these things on different examples .
so in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that fills the newspapers over and over again .
now , you have to have another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy , present .
this has to do with us going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact one in the middle between two equal hairs , it &apos;s starving .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
we had to worry about lawyers and so on .
so he &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how natural things are presented .
equal forces with opposing signs of adjustment dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if it makes a haystack bigger right away , it doesn &apos;t need any reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
he &apos;s automatically running to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , you &apos;re determined by the bigger pile that immediately attracts you , you also have the feeling that there must be such a thing as a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and they say sometimes wolf singer , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of will .
now we can make the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , which was only done in the computer with images of flickr , and just type in notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and in the university site , and so on . each of these orange bars represents a picture that was heard as this model .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day , and that &apos;s what you find in this third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of will , can &apos;t be held responsible for his actions and his claims , and therefore it &apos;s unsustainable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you have to first prove that there is such a thing as freedom of will .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of forward is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice that , for example , once you meet a person who you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
you can &apos;t call that , then that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in this way in this way .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;ll be one where , of course , there are those predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy realizing that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived you .
because he put them on a tray where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the form of shifting the evidence burden , you see the magnitude of the lie .
and once again , if you have an opportunity to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember your self-lies that way .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
thank you for your attention .
yes , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention it .
a language is expression of the human mind .
she &apos;s one of the creators here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea .
i have to say , honestly , you got it , i had a hard time talking about my idea at first .
and i might want to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to imagine .
but , of course , it &apos;s the sum of very , very many ideas .
i &apos;m probably here , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been ordering for this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machines in carlruh , technical college , i think , today it &apos;s called kit .
and then , in the mid- &apos; 80s , it hit me to berlin , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t exist in carlboard .
there was the nuclear research facility called leopoldshafen .
i never believed , you know , i &apos;m going to end up working at microsoft .
they were all called kfa at the time , which was jewish , called kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but a doofes like solar pendulum , which kind of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word at all , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t that way in the years of the authorities .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in cross mountain in the courtyard , where you thought evil was supposed to be .
where the terrorism was , but it was called the fur electronics , and it made wind and solar energy , and i started in the middle of the eighth century .
and yes , a lot of what was said today , i &apos;m very touched by the fact that many , many beautiful expressions were there that i also lived through .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
i worked in the collectively for 11 years , which was basic democratic .
we were 20 people .
when one said no , that was vetoprinzip , that completely crashed you . i spent 10 years trying to figure out if i was really wasting my great engineering college , maybe because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window with your kid .
it &apos;s all about inflammation .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and you get into that one image where i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marks were still , basic wages , unemployment in the collective , of course , whether that &apos;s really the great thing .
and i then went to six to six and a half , and then , along with friends , i became the co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge history of success , but of course , again , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and devote ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that means , i think , in a way , it &apos;s the same crazy thing again , and that &apos;s going to start by saying , what &apos;s the bottom line , that &apos;s all not going to happen , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how you get a hundred percent renewable .
and we just started asking a relatively simple crazy story , where could you use a memory of a meaningful thing today ?
i guess you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been flipped together in this environment .
on this island , this is graciosa island on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a renewable energy share of fifteen percent today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have any more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when they build more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
i also tell the politicians when they occupy our facility in berlin adlershof .
they always say , why ?
we already have 20 percent in germany .
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
can &apos;t be a problem at all .
but not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated that was two thousand in 2006 , and the first contacts started with the island , and just did the math .
how big a battery would you have to be , in fact , to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventh percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go back to a slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power are built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s particularly fast everywhere .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s taking place is deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of three of the diesels , two are always waited .
yes , this is how one sees the load down there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind conditioning , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only feed in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
this is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to use the burden so that they can map the bigger proportion .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
somewhere here , there are a series of photographs -- here they are .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can , in a sense , take over the entire grid .
you can only do that , of course , if you &apos;re manned here in some way .
no one in the world has ever done that .
that &apos;s a small style , so you can also use your razor in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing research on this in adlershof ?
that &apos;s going to happen .
but if you want to put together several of these interfaces and you want them to build a network , it becomes very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seventh to ninety percent renewables , and then here &apos;s the rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewables , that &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work , that you &apos;re going to do that from batteries .
that &apos;s certainly going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or table , that &apos;s going to be it .
you have to go to a seasonal memory , and match winter summer , and not just tag-night .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was recorded correctly .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and they simulated wind and sun and the burden , and they came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that if you look at the conventional system , which takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , you get out about four and a half cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
if you &apos;re great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulators .
what would it have to do ?
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social shepherds .
we were only five people then to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is , in a sense , the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , is that we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase on the other things .
and the power-utility , which the electric utility company on the island , has meant that we love that .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we could sort of map the island &apos;s electrical proportions to one in three very precisely .
that is , we &apos;ve been looking for the largest battery in the world .
here it is .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from all -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected together .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , she was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then she was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see it .
it has a megawatt , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of simulation .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of those same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , to actually get the full dynamic behavior of this network , so in the hall , it &apos;s now looking like this , in the back of here is the diesel , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the judges that we &apos;re simulating the net with .
over here , we &apos;re simulating the whole transmission system , the kilometers of the physics of cable to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
so here we see , again , this is another one , again , the whole , single aggregate .
all these photographs are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousand-nine , the hall was finished , until today , almost anything that was here between the single system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the subject and the subject of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate , of course , to the battery , you have to be able to communicate on the net , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this island is that you can basically do anything today that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
so this whole discussion of how to move back and forth right now , energy turn , how to do that , for example , on the island , we have five to 30 percent excess energy , so we tire the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , ask about it , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
you can , through n smart-grid , you can , by expanding the nets , yes , you should definitely do that , listen to the share , but you will never be able to get rid of the storage completely .
you get a model that comes out of all the earth .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes some inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just made out of noisy rotating masses of large power plants , where the wave always goes around europe .
we look in this web , we see the 50 hertz , and if it becomes nine cubs in ninety-nine comma , we &apos;re going to catch a couple of valves , then we &apos;re going to go back in a little bit of merh steam , and then we get back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , this is incredible talks .
if you tear it down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
and in time , you can react to other things again .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds out with this big battery .
and you can see that there are enormous speed possibilities there .
and the message is now , we need to get on these rotating masses , if we &apos;re kind of 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get to that .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run simply means the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal plants , because we don &apos;t do it , or gastures , because we don &apos;t .
and we &apos;re just trying to make sure that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also getting electrochemical memory into the grid .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now .
and that &apos;s the purpose that people always come to , and look at our trial on which , sort of , our island test .
and this is something that is growing through the complexity that people use it with , and whose benefit is getting bigger and bigger for the user to use it .
and yes , the discussion is all about the question of how far can you take a little bit of a future out there .
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
don &apos;t go , is weak , child toy , we calculated everything , we never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is prevalent .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years we will have the same capacity of electrochemical storage around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is , in the last two years , i &apos;ve kind of experienced this , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , even to climb 10 megawatt-battery to the german web now .
your own photos are signed up with metadata that one other person has entered .
this is going to happen next april .
so , from that point on , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s only from that defense position to yes , to the idea of a hundred percent renewable .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far in discussions , these insultants , they &apos;re doing autark , they have their own little net , and that has nothing to do with our connection and nothing to do with it .
the question is , quite simply , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out somewhere in the world and taken to them , you &apos;re an island .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
then you just use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where you live .
and that &apos;s a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we go , the talk of premium cola , is that you can be again a collective and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little bit crazy and also have a vision .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to work .
when someone took the trouble and labeled all these sacred people , and told them who they are , my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use them as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of overwhelming model of social experience using other providers .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist , the los angeles times , went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , raw , homeless , who played on a violin who had only two more strings .
many of you will know the story , because steve &apos;s article later became a book that was filmed again , with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrast assistant who studied at juilliary conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically completed early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steve &apos;s book , or to watch the movie , so you can understand not just the wonderful connectedness that came from between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was the instrument , if that pun is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine me .
he was talking in a very hot and social sound about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the tangible passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in self-education .
and of course , by the way , all of these are the immense rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth , not just by overwhelming or satellite images and so forth , but by collective memory .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re so bad sometimes , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , walking around the streets of skid row , exposed to this horror and the torture source of his own mind .
and in the same way that a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this irre flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was scared , not because of opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his conditions , and that i could destroy his relationship with his violin when i started talking about clay and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic self-educators .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that in nathanick &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was as if he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
nathaniels of manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
thank you .
and like a miracle , he took his violin , and he started playing a few sections of violin concerts after hearing , and then he asked me to finish it : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa-pekka salons .
and i realized that he had not only an encyclopedia knowledge of music , but also connected him to her a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i know only about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a lover , educated , excellent musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music is changing us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
i understood that this is the nature of art .
do i get them right ? their software allows , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used together by somebody in the world are basically connected ?
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that is deep inside all of us , our feelings , through our artistic lens , can shape through our creativity into reality .
and the reality of that expression is reaching all of us , moving , inspired and united with us .
so what nathaniel did , the music brought him back into a community of friends .
the disruptive power of music brought him back into a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m going to play with nathaniel all the time , whether in walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve been unfortunately stealing the cellists .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
yes . it does nothing but discovery .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , good-tasting , good consistency , sustainable , a best seller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do a session about the sustainability of the farm .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
here was a company trying to solve what became this unimaginable problem for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menus ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests of bare .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the heavy fish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so i think or evil aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments about it . fisheries are polluting the environment , most of them , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got a food processing from 15 to one .
that means 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
not very sustainable .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
also , it doesn &apos;t taste very good .
so here was finally a company trying to get it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call him don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing the way out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed from our fish is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one thing ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . i set up .
and that evening , i was in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
now , i phones with some people in the company , and nobody could give me a neat answer , until i finally got a phone phone with the leading biologist .
let &apos;s call him don .
like if you take a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what the image is .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , remnant , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken on fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the manual , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
i fell in love with this fish .
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous enjoyer and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because i swear to god who tasted fish after that conversation after chicken .
that second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way in which , the better you get to know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s sort of wired us .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shameful white color .
the chef had cooked him .
then the size of the semantic cross-section , and the abundance that comes out is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can do it .
let &apos;s call him miguel . in fact , he &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand underneath .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s close to the coin of the river of guadalquivir .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentinians .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . congratulations .
they grew meat cattle on what were basically wetlands .
they did that by irrigating the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds in this place .
and so , in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
they literally transformed the lever .
thank you very much .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see is cursed channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin , and part of &quot; a crocodile to the kiss . &quot;
okay ? we were there , and we fought through the wetlands , and i cooked and sweat , and i have mud to my knees , and miguel is quietly holding a biology lecture .
here he is highlighting a rare glider .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to create some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more just about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had in the morning .
i want to start with what i call official dogma .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-replicating .
there &apos;s no food .
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
the official dogma of what ?
i went around on this site later on with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a director had demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your bellies , pink .
and of these 6,000 languages today , as we &apos;re sitting here in monterey , that &apos;s exactly half of them are no longer whispered into the ears of children .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you drag your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
&quot; we &apos;re losing 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
now , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , were more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish rising ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensely .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly , the better the system . &quot;
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public good of our citizens , it &apos;s particularly through the maximizing of the freedom of the individual .
raising a fish , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there in the first place .
they breed 240 kilometers away in a city where the ground nature is better for nest maintenance .
they fly 240 kilometers to the farm every morning .
and every night they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do it because they can follow the striked white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of trip of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 40 miles to the farm , and then you fly back 140 kilometers in the evening ?
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an inheritable condition for the human .
he looked at me as though i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it crushing .
it &apos;s this bloody , coded flavor .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t tap into fish at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
it &apos;s the last defense before something gets into the body .
when people have freedom , each of us is to do the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s evolved over evolution to look at unreinforces . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any units . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their fish , a farm that measures their success in the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that doesn &apos;t have any inpurity , it drives enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that runs all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this leaves the water cleaner than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that literally is a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because this love story , as romantic as it is , is also enlightening .
the way to maximize choice is to maximize choice .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that are going to insure the future of good food , does someone get up somewhere and say , &quot; hey , i love pinke flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
no , not because we already produce enough calories to feed the world more than just .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
a billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasses of inequalities in the distribution , not overall production .
well , i don &apos;t like that question because it &apos;s been determining the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feed grain of herbivores , pest control of monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken of fish , and all the time , the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how awful can that be ? &quot;
that was the reason . it was the legislation . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a commercial in the wrap , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that allows this production to happen .
it &apos;s not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of declining ingredients , but because of decreasing resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
they want to feed the world ?
this is , i think , so deep in our water supply that it would not come to mind to question it .
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in it , and it &apos;s never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s the one that goes back to two billion years of work experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring instead of using , businesses that grow extensively , instead of just intensive , farmers who are not just producers , but experts for relationships .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts for flavor .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to give you one thing today , it &apos;s that the total data that we consume is bigger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overlapping , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns emerge , and we can see trends that wouldn &apos;t otherwise have been visible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical death diagram , ordered by age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is , after a particular cause of death , i can filter , say , accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle section here , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most vulnerable over here .
we can go one step further and rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes us modern progress .
now , as we go on and sort around age , let &apos;s say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should worry about .
and if you go on to see that this is particularly true for men .
so you realize that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here are the cover images of every single &quot; sports illustrated &quot; that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
you can dive into a decade with pivot .
you can dive into a particular year .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
this is my supermarket . it &apos;s not a big one .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m clicking to this point where all the spending is mentioned to me in lance armstrong .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at it all with bicycle bike ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to step back , and i &apos;m going to go back and see that .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , wider , zoom out , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s a little bit between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
they &apos;re no longer taught to little kids . that means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wiki pediaset and reduced it to a little summary .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol for the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i elect government , i realize that the wikipediakatoriums that cover the most of time magazine are &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wiki pediaset .
that &apos;s just to see if you take a step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and all look together .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that most of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essions that you could buy to make a large number of salad dessings , in the improbable case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we surf on the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you what else might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump straight to a specific segment .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , look at the entire internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in on my course in a particular time frame .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this point .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
and i can sort of bring back anything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and , again , if i step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe after my search past , here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic &apos; , &apos; here for bing , or here for live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the page and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the entire picture bigger than the sum of the files .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information surplus .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so instead of always going from one to the other , we can start to be able to go from many things to many things , and see patterns that would have otherwise been hidden ?
if we can do that , then this data trap , maybe a new source of information is going to make sense .
and , instead of just moving in information , we can get knowledge from it .
and then they go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereos .
and if we know , maybe we can even draw wisdom from it .
i &apos;ll stop that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a corresponding portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i went to school with the bus , an hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts in other worlds and , in a narrative way , satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would wander through the forests , travel and collect samples , frogs and snakes and ponds , and take everything home and look under the microscope .
i was totally enthusiastic about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because then , in the late &apos; 60s , we went to the moon and explored the deep sea .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of wonder that we never could have imagined before .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
i think that &apos;s been very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor that oversaw with computer-generated movies nor the whole imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as kids , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to this was drawing and painting by aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook .
creativity had to kind of get out .
and something interesting happened to me , because what fascinated me with jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed quite unlikely to me .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 kilometers away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t get discouraged by that .
i haunted my father until he finally had a dive school in buffalo , new york , found out , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years that have been stripped , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of that in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat ocean , is as rich as the fascinating life as we can really hardly imagine .
the fantasy of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , delicate human imagination .
in other areas , the world of communication .
to this day , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to work as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
when i was a kid , i used to draw comic books and stuff .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together . that fit together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science-fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at abyss , i was able to connect my preference for the underwater world , and diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of intertwined .
something interesting happened at abyss : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took back on computer-generated animation , cg .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
and what came out of it was the first computer-generated software surface-figure to ever see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring any money , he just played his production cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , it &apos;s got to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy out of liquid metal , and the success depended entirely on how this effect would happen .
and it worked . again , we created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
from those two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at that time called &quot; digital domain . &quot;
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start in a moment with digital productions .
and then we did , and we got a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that we had started the creature-design , which we had started the company , too slowly .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to push the measurements into visual effects and computer-generated effects across new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made using cg , and the main characters should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was quite depressing back , and the people in my company told me that we were not able to do that , in fact .
so i shifted that , and i made this other movie about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic dimensions , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketing tag . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by the silence , one of the last to your people who speak your language , have no way to pass on the wisdom of ancestors , or to expect the hope for children ?
sounds crazy . but that goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian dive , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
it wasn &apos;t a movie , it wasn &apos;t a hd , it was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
and the preparation for this was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
these days are over .
and i noticed how much this deep-sea exchange was like a space mission .
well , they were also high-tech , high-tech planning .
you go into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science-fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was actually obsessed with studying the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that had to do with curiosity and science . it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then create a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
in some of the following expeditions , i saw creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i had never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had seen before , and for the science at the time when we saw it , had found no words at all .
we now have almost an infinite selection of phones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
so that really got me upset , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started diving to the bismarck , and we studied them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to go in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
nobody had ever explored the inside of the wreck , and you didn &apos;t have any means to do it , so we developed the technology necessary .
well , i &apos;m sitting there on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are very similar to these brakes , and i know that once the band has played there .
and i &apos;m flying with a little robot experience through the gears of the ship .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
i &apos;m just doing it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was there physically within the shipping wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjí-vu i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i was bowing around a corner each , i &apos;ve always known what was going to happen in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d been running over the movie for months when we were filming the movie .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use robotic avatars like this , and so your own consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really immensely profound .
and maybe a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or to do other things , in all kinds of post-human futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we saw down there , like these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are sort of alien , but here on earth .
they live with chemosynthesis .
my favorite one is the one in the middle -- mp3-playful , nasal hair trimmer and crème bratelée fackel .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight based system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degrees centigrade that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science-fiction influence of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa , and then sit in nasa &apos;s expertise council and plan real space missions , and they go to russia , they go through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and they pick it up , and they fly to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , i took space scientists with us to the deep sea .
i took them , and i brought them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in these extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , take samples and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually did science , which is space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation in reality .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business until now , you can be sure that you &apos;re going to be .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think that a director must also lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand a lot of leadership until i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going to happen ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t make us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . no trace of fame .
everybody thinks i was in between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
you do it for the task of will , for the challenge of will -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that exists . you do it for the discovery of space , and because of the strange connection that emerges when a small group of people form a team .
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
because we did all this with only 10 to 12 people who worked for years uninterrupted , sometimes we were in the lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we &apos;ve had to do it , the fiberglass , the weakness , and the whole technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other thing . that &apos;s like the policeman or the soldiers who have done something together and know that they can &apos;t explain it to anybody .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next movie , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you deserve yourself in the opposite direction of respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half years .
do you know what the answer to that question is ?
and so my way of making films changed , completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d actually done a really good job of transporting these ocean creatures on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what have we learned ?
i think the curiosity is first .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the contempt of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how i can do this . &quot;
the answer is no .
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
that &apos;s what others get for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself , but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has one of these favorite phrases : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a trust board .
no important endeavor that demanded innovation was ever taken without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise a little bit , because my full-time work at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we have to invent and deliver to allow the poorest two billion to live a better life .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
climate degradation means that their seeds will not grow over many years , we too much or too little rain , and things will change the way their fragile environment cannot stop .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to riots .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle for them is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , the price of poverty would be far the most effective in energy .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
in other aspects of life , which are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they sum up the output co2 that leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature elevation has some very negative consequences , effects on the weather and perhaps worse , the indirect implications that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a carbon rise and the resulting temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an older person dies and takes the last silver of an old language .
isn &apos;t it enough half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to increase .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a three-foot truck that has to be under a three-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
this has to go all the way down to zero .
health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we need to make changes that will reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s been up constant .
only different economic changes have it influenced at all , and we need to go from rapid increase to zero reduction .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get towards zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services that each person uses on average , the average energy on every service and co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every single factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
instead , they go to the doctor , and the doctor tells them , we could do a , or we could do b .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading to nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to remove and use less , but on average , that number will increase every year , and therefore more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
a has these benefits and risks .
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , in e , in energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the domestic building , there are many services whose energy intensity some of the services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air transport , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three reduction , or maybe even by a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough !
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get that to zero ?
if you burn coal , no .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the notion of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people living with mosquitos .
i came up with this energy .
i decided that leaving fireflies would be my environmental contribution here , this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was assured that they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
well , there are all kinds of gadgets like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has those benefits and risks .
we need solutions , either one or several , that have an incredible scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really see only five that can afford these big demands .
i left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they might have a moderate contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimney after the burn , fluid under pressure , and then store somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do it at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent is going to be very difficult , and getting an agreement on co2 , is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the warehouse question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times larger than any kind of waste you can imagine from nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
so this is a tough nut .
what do you want to do ?
next , nuclear power .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the garbage ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should be working .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies are creating dramatically lower than the power plants .
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more surface than a normal power station .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
and also , these sources are underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t keep blowing .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission , and if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you have to deal with the risk of energy coming from where else .
and there &apos;s a problem with storage .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : those for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches right now .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these underbroken sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
if you want to rely on it by 100 percent , you need an incredible wonder battery .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not her . &quot;
now , where should we go : what is the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get to the target ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on it . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many people here at the ted group who are already involved in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies doing great things and interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and most likely is sick , and therefore , not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , they &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since then there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes ! with the right material approach , it looks like it &apos;s working .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place , if we all talk just one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let &apos;s have this language be yoruba . let them be cantonic .
and because you burn this 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is consumed gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; walking wave reactor . &quot;
that really solves the fuel problem .
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , when you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy them .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the consumed uranium .
that &apos;s what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you filter ocean water cheap and simple , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s lifetime .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
a lot of people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
why do they advertise for us if we can &apos;t buy ?
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully walthreats and cement will be clean .
so , to reach those 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reorder their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we &apos;re using the zero emissions technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this testimony .
when we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency efforts to get reductions , the less we emitt , the less carbon the co2 sum will be and the temperature will be .
but actually , this note for the things that we &apos;re doing that don &apos;t lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even less important than the other ones that are the speed of innovation for this breakthrough .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
al gore &apos;s book , &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework in which this can be broadly discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through co2 , i will find that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term thinking people will be horrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of the lives of those two billion will be much worse .
so what do we need to do ?
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice , how to show this slide .
what are i appealing for ?
we need to get more research funding .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
they should discuss this innovation strategy , and they would be shocked by the ridiculous funds spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market travel , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rationally and more fully , and also the things that are being done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you . thank you !
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists , what we did , we only need a few 10 million . and even if we tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re just in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , find another billion , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s going to be as promised , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
now , to get this right : this is deep in the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . today you have to refill the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it in for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they buried without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
a nuclear reactor , which even provides a solution to the trash .
and we &apos;re often reinventing ourselves as much as we want .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what the reactors had been a problem , what we &apos;re doing in our fills , and it &apos;s dramatically reducing the waste volume during this process .
but as they talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the greatest interest in really making this happen ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet figured out a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting revelations rules for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; -- there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how that fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variation of one thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
in your mind , time frame and probability to really start something like this ?
that means that every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
bg : now we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , it could be easy .
and luckily , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds that , just as their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be best if you could do it several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : a breakthrough of energy is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s a modular method , that &apos;s a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little hard , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a carbon molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mainly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to incorporate emergency measures to try to keep the temperature of the earth stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a line of research called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t be working on insurance first , because you might be doing it lazy , so you keep eating because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things get faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that are shifting things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you only have later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worry .
today , everything is easy to have .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it emitting co2 , i wish it &apos;s going to do it , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the björn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals , the poverty reduction , the malaria fighting , and so on , that there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money on it , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on the research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more per year than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
among them , other things should not suffer .
you get too big money , and this is where reasonable people can disagree , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short of a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the distraction that you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can hold .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing our lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
i teach them wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
let them be . &quot;
now , his new flap is , &quot; why is it that &apos;s not going to research ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he &apos;s understood that this is a very lonely group , and that &apos;s why he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought process that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here , if i say , i really hope your wish will come true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter of tape , about a foot of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in the task .
you talk about it , you think about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization . they sketch and put spaghetti .
they spend a lot of their time in assembling continually growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow and they put it on the top , step back , and ta-da ! admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a uh-oh , because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and fall down .
there are a series of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy with other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they &apos;re producing really viable shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and under the best , there are fresh pediatrics of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they don &apos;t just produce the highest towers , they also produce the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : why is that ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
and then realizing it .
should i marry later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time anymore , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have a multi-fold opportunity to repair the inflatable prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every trial , the kids get instant feedback , which works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students are getting half of them , lawyers are a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten kids are better than adults .
who is most successful ?
architects and engineers , fortunately .
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
one foot is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-reinforcing geometric patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that happen ?
because they have special skills of processing accompanions .
you run the process , you understand it .
and that team , which is regulating and looking at the work , will significantly improve the performance of the team .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions , whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you , and not get a good note in my class .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six , they have stable structures .
now i tried something interesting .
i thought , well , let &apos;s bring the poker .
so i offered a $ 100,000 prize software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a six-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so from the same , bad team , one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic position , to build the right prototype .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with technology that allows us to work every minute from every day from every place on the planet -- to the randolph hotel .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of people optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it requires that we all take our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our feelings and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a small prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a uh-oh -- to a ta-da moment .
and that can make a big difference .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about that the wireless plan works on .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose , because i asked my friends this question a lot lately , and they all wanted to go into the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that you have somehow moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not going to tell you , because i want to use it .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
this is the greatest time we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re going to do : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so there should be a nine in the beginning of my death number .
so what it means is to make this incredible freedom of choice , in terms of work , we make decisions over and over again , whether we should or not work .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . the smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they have reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , diseases that have threatened millions of us just one generation ago are barely yet .
diphill , skirts , child paralysis ...
we can look at our kids playing football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hip , and probably our laptop on our lap .
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the successes of the scientific method .
and from my point of view , the scientific method of trying to do things is to see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all the good news , because there are some other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastation this world thoroughly .
drinking water , urgent land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re going away , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we &apos;re going to disappear .
so the question is : can we do that ? i think we can do that .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we also wonder , &quot; should i take this call ?
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world with the energy it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder thinking .
but this one keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as hard as now .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven these things to be more powerful , more fronts than now .
people are covering themselves in their faith , so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
but do you know what they &apos;re not right for ?
should i answer this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; school , don &apos;t have them .
and i took a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , in resistance to what is the most effective thing to do in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article on genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were in a certain way , rather than a random way of pushing around , was a way of taking over the field of nature .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be very different from your child &apos;s experience of football playing .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we &apos;re typing , we &apos;re rich , we &apos;re eating , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles worried about me , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and eventually i found out why .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were careful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
we &apos;re talking about it ambiguously .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking ironically about it , with little leaders around it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , so there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just call it a couple of names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challengers , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen before , and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the mask , the mumps , and tubes of vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were conducted to see if this was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
but you know what ?
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a matter of choice .
the result was catastrophic .
catastrophic , because of this fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the immunization question is decreasing for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has masses ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
it doesn &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 an hour .
but because this hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and it &apos;s very quick .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst spirits in humanity .
no fear , no jellyfish , no child paralysis , disappeared .
the guy in the middle doesn &apos;t do that much .
it &apos;s called paul offit .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
he &apos;s just developed a rotaviral vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , apart from paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so today i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to understand what actually has been lost .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
the answer is yes .
take it away , reverse the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i &apos;m a little bit too shrimp . &quot;
nobody ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
why ? because we don &apos;t have childhood paralysis . and you know what ?
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
we didn &apos;t have childhood paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos got on an airplane this morning , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles right now , and they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidum that helps you on the leaps .
i know you did that because half the americans do it every day .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find out they &apos;re useless .
all these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
the data is constantly recording this .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you &apos;d like to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i agree with you all .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we should not . our health care system is mies .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it paralyzes instead of liberating .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishing cold and soulful to ourselves that can afford .
so we run away from it , and where do we go ?
we run into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
with so many options you can choose , people have a very hard time even choosing .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancers who want to treat his patients with caffe-walks .
if you go to this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs , which we know can slow down aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetic engineering and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study on investing in volunteer aging .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice cake , every branch of petersilie , every rosebush , has been changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarin in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of them worked , and some of them didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it more closely , and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people expand their lives .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to be patented .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
this has nothing to do with science .
and what she found was every 10 investment fund offered by the employer , took the participation by two percent .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re scared of a real dead end , and it stops millions of people from blooming .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
and why ? genetically engineered food .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees than if they offer five . why ?
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this in it .
and then people could eat the food , and they wouldn &apos;t be blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say is : why do we fight this ?
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose to put it on tomorrow .
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
now there are some of us who are sort of forgetting that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i really mean different possibilities of being .
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep doing that , we &apos;re guilty of something that we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description for what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy of ours , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
anyway . i certainly want that .
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and of course , tomorrow never comes .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to .
we need to have these conversations , and we need to think , but when we go into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you think of it as me , &quot; a deception that becomes real , if you just believe enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks what &apos;s going on with it is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient only believes in it , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
a deception becomes a real thing because somebody perceives it that way .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss large investment offers of their employers .
so , in order to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i myself learned him from cub scout magic from the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study , my hand , that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my lap like this .
i push my sleeve back .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to push my wrist right here .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to multiply their contribution .
in this way , you can see that at no time anything is moving , and as long as i push here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no animation , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
this is how it works .
i hold the knife in my hand .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i say i &apos;m going to close my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i &apos;m holding my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of the illusion .
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger here , my index finger , just from where he was , into a position where he was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , he &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it processes information doesn &apos;t count them one , one , two , three , but you see them as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what it &apos;s about now , and then i open my hand .
of course , it &apos;s maintained there , but not by magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my index finger , which is now there .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger moves back again .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick with your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , so this was an amazing thing for me .
and what it turns out is , if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color these blue and you make a letter on it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all there is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any shape .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dose also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an effective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of this has a really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it , which is a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when it &apos;s supposed to be done .
this is an eight-inch hill . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize you a little bit first .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damian &apos;s specialized meat .
so that &apos;s the effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and drive it through it until it retrieval on the other side .
if you &apos;re evil , if you &apos;re easy to fall -- i &apos;ve done this in the hotel room a couple of friends last night , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman &apos;s almost oblivious .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad fast , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part here in the back .
you can see it in a second , but you can see away , if you like .
so , it goes like this , right here where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little sticky .
i &apos;m really sorry . does that make you crazy ?
and just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had in the knife trick .
about .
and there are several reasons for this .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , that &apos;s not so stupid , and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself , just to give us a few minutes of entertainment . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
one of them is required by the large selection of different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is this visually presented alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the satisfaction that you made by your decision , even if it was a good decision .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can turn this around .
sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look at it .
take , for example , this kid of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of anakonda , believe that they mythologically came up from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
the people in the back , or those who later see this on , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , he would -- you see , here &apos;s a hole and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
but i think , in this frame here and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
the more opportunities there are , the easier it is not to regret anything that is disappointing to the choice that they make .
we &apos;re going to meet a couple more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll be looking forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking today about happiness .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the last five years , and they &apos;ve been giving up about 40 , and there &apos;s been a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think about happiness .
and my talk today will be mostly about these cognitive trade-offs .
that &apos;s true for laypeople who think about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
secondly , what economists call the oppertunitarian cost .
the first of these falls is a conflict to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could narrow it down to , but in the whole thing , it &apos;s something that we &apos;re going to have to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the notion of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , which was a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible ringing sound .
and then he added to it , really quite emotionally , which ruined the whole experience .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it to .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had had the experience .
he had had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he had fallen in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what that really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is capable of experiencing the past again , but it &apos;s basically just the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is attacking -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it going to hurt if i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memory of self , and the remembering self is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one who addresses the doctor by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
well , if there are lots of alternatives to think , it &apos;s simply to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives you &apos;ve chosen .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two to confuse is part of the envelope of happiness .
well , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts right away .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make ourselves tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful anymore , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very fragile or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but one of them is far worse than the other .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the very end of it . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than she was for b in the memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the perspective of living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical trials , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extende the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in without shaking it too much .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you do that for a couple of minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve done a lot better at remembering patient a , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a a better story about your experience .
what is a story about ?
here &apos;s a couple of them on the hampton .
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
and what a story is about is the outbreaks , the meaningful moments and the ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one after another .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave behind .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
and yet , they kind of get the impression that they should count that what &apos;s happening during that moment of life is our lives .
very expensive real estate .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use them would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is over time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the remembering self .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory of self from a living self , and time has very little impact on this story .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
it &apos;s actually the one who makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two levels of gut in two different surgeons , and decides which to choose , then the one who chooses , who has the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon that will be selected .
the living self has no voice in this election .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory self , and you can think of the remembering self as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we draw from our memories ?
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think about it a lot in relation to how often i think about other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably eaten from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors blue and green , because the celestial scene is equal to the forest that people depend on .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about it in the sense of time , you get an answer , and if you think about it in the sense of memories , you might get a different answer .
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two species of self .
well , the two kinds of self are two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask the happiness of the memory self , it &apos;s a very different thing .
that &apos;s not how happy a person lives .
i could park in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s about how happy or happy the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being that have been messing up the exploration of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and what their experiences are , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with your life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy he lives his life and vice versa .
just to give you an idea of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone and you were to tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
and he tracks two weeks from the thought that he missed the opportunity to have a great parking lot day after day .
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody put his life as eight on a scale of 10 , you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his own living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines happiness of the happiness self .
we know money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even if what we chose is fantastic .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason we can &apos;t think clearly about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are they not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if they live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is , when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people might end up going to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who go to california in the hopes of getting happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
we know that .
and the more choices there are , the more attractive features of this choice are considered in the oppertunity cost .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we mentioned a couple of weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something that you can let us participate in , because you have a couple of minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we &apos;ve found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
here &apos;s another example .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that under a 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a large representative sample , under a 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they get increasingly less happy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines like this .
what happens is obvious that money doesn &apos;t raise you an experience happiness , but that lack of money surely raise you misery , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the spirit of the other self , of the memory itself , you get a different story .
the more money you make the happier you are .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the entire american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , that the country would generally take a fund like the seriously and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life rating , so we need to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different from how you think , and whether you think about the remembering self , or whether you think about the living self .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
he makes a statement about it now in life , and maybe also doing things about it .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this will , i think , be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online games .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
but one important thing he does is , whenever you decide for one thing , you decide not to do other things .
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours of play time per week .
this may first seem a little bit disgusting , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical for the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of photographer phil toledano .
he wanted to capture the feelings of play , so he built a camera in front of the players .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will do what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little scared , but also the outer concentration , deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth are a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows are surprising .
they have a strange language , and a marriage rule is called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . okay . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that &apos;s so super-positive that they didn &apos;t even know it was possible .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they get to it , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of doing this . this is an epic victory .
this player is just in front of an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
and this is what we need to see on millions of problem-solvers around the world , if we look at the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of all the adversity of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we tend to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face , and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yes ? ok .
that &apos;s me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we are better in games than in real life .
this is a problem that a lot of players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in play .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , although that &apos;s part of it .
we get more in the world . i mean , in the context of motivation , doing something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are turning into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful , to try to solve the problem as long as it takes , to try it after the failure .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , perhaps depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why in games is it impossible to think that you couldn &apos;t just do anything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from playing games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a worldwide mission , instantly .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
so you can do that .
they never get a problem that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of your skills , so you have to get a little bit tight , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and turn around . there &apos;s always a very important thing to do .
and there are tons of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to close your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingercut , you have a staff .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + one strength &quot; or &quot; + one intelligence . &quot;
and there was a time when there was only one species , and they bought it , and they adjusted it , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they carried it long enough , and they washed enough , they started to feel ok .
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have to talk + 1 and + one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem with cooperative online worlds like the world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory all the time that we prefer to spend all our time in these worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years together solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily something bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to resolve .
so the first exciting primate .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old ones , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
ok , so when we talk about how much time we &apos;re currently spending with games , that just makes sense when you think about the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe in .
if you look at this interesting statistic , which has recently been published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young man of today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total amount that they spend in school , from fifth grade to high school degree -- if you never miss .
so here we have a whole parallel education way on which young people learn what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
and the seller said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or long ?
it &apos;s based on the great research on cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any kind of tedious subject to the 21st year , we become a master .
we get as good at doing whatever the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what are the players that are really good at ? &quot;
because if we could find that out , we would have , in a way , unprecedented human potential .
so many people in the world right now , who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at &quot; something . &quot;
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , rather than the broadband internet , so that players can play online all over the world , especially in india , china , brazil .
do you want to wash buttons or rippings ? stone or acid ?
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found : first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of it as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a green hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in dense social nets in spiders .
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we like people more after we play with them , even when they &apos;ve defeated us miserably .
do you want to delete jeans ?
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with somebody .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and remain there until the end of the game .
so playing together enables you to grow bonds , trust and one another .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft-player plays 22 hours a week , so to speak , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
and finally , epic meaning .
want to cut far down , cookie , blah blah , blah , and so on , he said .
players love to become part of awesome territory missions of planetary masses .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective , and you all know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve collected more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than about any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as individuals , they can change the world .
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a folk scientist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness no less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , which , because of the missiles , six or seven languages are spoken , is that you never hear anyone learning a language .
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
you can put more social ties in games than in real life , you can get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passengers i &apos;ve ever had .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that lies back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes made out of sheep &apos;s need . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep &apos;s need .
and these were , in a sense , the first of human beings to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you might know this story . the story of how and why games were invented .
now , according to herodotus , games , more cubic games , in the kingdom of lydia were invented during a famine .
there was such a famine , supposedly , that the king of lydias decided to have a crazy idea .
i had it better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game and agreed a national strategy , and on a day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surrounded us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then , the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next .
likewise , i think we &apos;re putting in games today .
we use games to get out of the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get away with everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
but i felt worse .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to use a final cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break an epic adventure .
they left lydia , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people behind as there was food to survive , and they looked for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers , who later formed the roman empire , have the same dna as the old lydics .
so recently , scientists came to think that herodotus &apos;s crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global refrigeration that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
so this crazy story could be true .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing games , by flipping into games for 18 years , and then having that inflammation and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the entire civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time of the world of warcraft series , which was 16 years ago .
they played cubes for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i want to say we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to find a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should survive in the fact that half of us spend an hour per day playing games until we solve the real world problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve dedicated my work to at the institute of the future in the last few years .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , expressing how we should understand the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans , went up .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empower people to implement that idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the ways to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try to get people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been following them since the last three years .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in one way .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you &apos;re going to go to .
find out how to survive . most of our players have kept the habits in the game .
so for the next global game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute of the future .
so the starting point is that a supercomputer computation is that people only have 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global mortality system , of course .
the call to players to sign up is almost like a jerry bruckheimer movie .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream-team . &quot; you have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-beach , and only together you can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody is in the dream-team , and our job is to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we &apos;re going to bring out on march 3 , and it &apos;s a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you close the game , you get the award of the world bank , &quot; social change , &quot; in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book . we have &quot; high &quot; for local understanding , knowledge interconnectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from thinking about their own social enterprises to save the world .
i &apos;m going to end now .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a huge meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social networks , urgency optimism , and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play significant games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world changing games start !
thank you .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an italian wired article .
i always had my synonymous dictionary griffed when i was writing , but i was ready to work with the text , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the entry .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , deceased , wounded , wounded , dedicated , lahm , separated , served , balanced , impotent , barren , paralyzed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , restored , done , broken , counted , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend of mine , and i had to laugh first , it worked so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; addressed , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t keep talking , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting myself after this out-of-the-box , and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a very , very old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting elementary school , and starting to build and shape my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would have been born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be in any way positive , but today i am celebrated for the opportunities and adventures i &apos;ve experienced .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how well these possibilities are going to be .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expected to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under &quot; near antonyms &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
it &apos;s what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the output of an escape has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking out loud can also manifest .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
already , a human being alone could be eightless as a child could be enough to constrain them and mutilate them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open your doors ?
a man who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name you can think of , most americans couldn &apos;t correct , so he was always called dr. p. .
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was designed for working with kids just like this .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , and so i tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he observed me at one of my exercises -- these practices were just tiring and graceful -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful , young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day up one of these benches .
and if you do , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you wouldn &apos;t know what this is about .
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so i do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the confidence that the richest five-year-old girls in the clinic in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and i could imagine myself as a naturally powerful , powerful and atlethal person .
this is just one example of how adults in positions of power can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the examples that have already been quoted from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t let us imagine something that we would all wish : to enable each and every one of us to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is behind social change , which in many cases has been caused by a technological change .
and of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and to develop beyond the limits that have given them their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , that allow people to have their own identity , define themselves in their own way , and to orient themselves to groups that they &apos;re looking for themselves around the world .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our greatest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- that &apos;s an interesting story , because people always ask me to tell you how to deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : that sentence has never fit for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering people &apos;s questions , and i think i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with adversity lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on solving a challenge , without being shaped by the experience associated with it , as if my life had been so successful , because i could erase the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
but the truth is that we are changing , of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
the truth is more like this .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to embrace in order to deal with our lives better .
adversity is just our lives .
and i tend to see adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make any impact on that , or the severe fight of a human being .
there are skills and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is going to deal with it in a different way , but the question is not whether we can deal with adversity or not , but how we deal with it .
so we &apos;re not only responsible for keeping the people we love from fate strikes , but we &apos;re also preparing them to get good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
you have to make two things clear : one , the medical fact , to be amputated and another , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything that was worse than anything , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly saying , you can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people that we care about and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical projection , or even make a prediction for quality of life that they expect , we need to be careful that we don &apos;t have the basic stone for somebody to be disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just looking at what &apos;s broken in a broken concept , and how we fix that , for each and every one of them , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t fully treat a human being , and we don &apos;t see all its forces and all its opportunities and recognize , we create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a human being who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology , and focus on all of the human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventor spirit .
we should not degrade or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we turn them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds of the odds .
i think i &apos;m more likely to realize that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we are open to embrace them , to put them on the shelf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of adversity as something natural , coherent and useful , and we &apos;re not going to feel so harassed by their presence anymore .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
this year , we celebrate the 200th birthday of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in the human character .
i would rewrite it like this : not the most powerful of its kind surviving , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflict emerges from creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to turn through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills in human beings .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut from when we &apos;re really checked out of .
maybe that &apos;s exactly the sense of adversity , a sense of iteration , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give adversity a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
maybe we can see adversity as change .
you &apos;re never going to be surprised because your expectations , my expectations , are high .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve done to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
honestly -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to get to know this poor , gray person if there really were you ?
i don &apos;t think so much .
it would be great if we could exchanging this paradigm of normality against another possibility or strength to even formulate it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgene found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , had contributed older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience of these people &apos;s survival is valuable for society .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what all of you have come up with -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up , into a food market in that red zone in northern pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a snapper tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts on it .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i got her from her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , that one .
and of course , it did click .
this was dr. kean , a man who i knew only from my mother &apos;s narratives about this day , because i , of course , typical , came too late on my birthday for two weeks .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born with no legs , and my feet had been looking for them , and i had just a few toes on this one , and a few toes on the other foot , he was the winner , this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and they just punished me since then . &quot;
and what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspapers all over my childhood , whether i had won a spelling competition in the second grade , whether i had been in halfway with the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school , whether i had my scholarship or one of my sports victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you just can &apos;t emphasize enough how critical that factor can be to the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. kean kept telling me , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids alone , then kids can do a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , are two different things .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me , at the age of 15 , if i had traded my prosthetics against legs of meat and bone , i would not have hesitated a second .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
i was desperate to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite those experiences .
and maybe that change could happen , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who wanted to constrain me or overcome an idea .
you see , it really takes only one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own inner forces -- the human mind is so receiving -- if you can do that , and open a door for somebody at a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open themselves to doors .
the actual meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to create something that is in one thing to tickle out the potential .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
but leaving is not always such a bad thing .
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into total schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided after grades .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who were first contacted peaceful in 1958 .
and the a students get harder to test , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time students with a &quot; sufficient &quot; note , and they were told that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , listening to your heart is that reverse to the students , they were told that they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had thrown the school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers were not refused .
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
they were just told that the one-size-fits-all students , and the students are sufficient , and they also taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind , a mind broken , has no more hope . he finds nothing more beautiful . he lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human mind to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around it to find themselves beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of names , not the god of the boats , but the god who knows only four words , and repeat them all the time , he says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose , through a few changes in your genes , i said that you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
do you want to become more attractive and more confident ?
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and you buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and you ask why , who is responsible ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who &apos;s been longing for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a persistent topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the idea of a doctor .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote an essay , saying , &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
they could have done better .
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , that would be a very good time to turn off your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing else in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it successful for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials at the top of those branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms , they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment of fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in that time period , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and use the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin that &apos;s used to treat diabetic ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes out of the pancreas .
and speaking about bacteria , are you aware that every one of us in our gut has more bacteria than it &apos;s leading cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitalized environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they just want to have without the efforts of their own .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go extinct .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestive nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in some sort of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a small grading .
that &apos;s what we were .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i realized something very fundamental : most of the existence of life in single organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is continued into both daughter cells .
but at the time that multi-cellular organisms showed up , things began to change .
sexual reproduction goes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that passes the genome , the rest of the body becomes desirable .
in fact , you might say that the inevitability of death of the body occurs in the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to admit , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel room door .
he opens the door .
i think a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it would be their fault .
in front of him is a beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; george says , &quot; i &apos;ll take the soup . &quot;
i came to the conclusion as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about passing the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival of generation after generation .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i , like boster rocket , are designed to send the genetic questioning to the next level of the orbit , and then drop into the ocean .
and so the image result is that we are generally better , objective , and we feel worse .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want immortality from my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution does not necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there , which are thermophil , and by doing so , the hot vapor survive , if fish were there , it would have a vacuum of cooked fish , yet they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward in the next phase , i would say , there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
we &apos;ve reached some kind of balance .
so let me remind you .
and the reason for that is that , first of all , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configured our environment so that we have managed to adapt to us , and we adapt to it .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional way , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument , here , would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly grueling , but they &apos;re inconvenient .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize distant planets as a species , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there is a third possibility , a devastating , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried to take place and made a severe mistake .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that isn &apos;t just natural , but it led and decided to be individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
how could it be that we do this ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to anticipate genetic adaptations in the body that would heal and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or eliminate the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same for 20 million dollars in drone to four months .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow , which is more choice than something .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long before the reality will be that there will be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it will be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encouraged the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead desirable proteins in an efficient way -- called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroste , and by manipulating just four genes that induced the cell to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect themselves , but also serve for the immunity of other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes from tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , much more possible .
imagine just two other small changes .
there &apos;s a magical crowd . i don &apos;t know what it is .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your kids a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophilia , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technique , the same engine of science that can allow change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- better memory .
why don &apos;t the power of a ken of jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from old style evolution to neo-evolution .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes maybe 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even 100 years .
i &apos;m pretty sure we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time at the selection of our public good .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others of us ?
are we going to make a society more diverse and uniform , or robuster and multiplier ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom , and the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
for good and for evil , and before you might think , these decisions are going to be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you human ability , or another that helps wheelchair users to get up and go .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
now , as a paragraph question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a matter of fact , as a matter of thinking about it , what enables all this choice in the industrialized societies is wealth .
they &apos;re not something but something that they do in the morning that will give them extra strength , and that will increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance .
this is actually the true melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge with that and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
that &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who , on average , carries about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the request that they should wear more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injuries .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can wear 200 pounds over different terrain for many hours .
his flexible design allows you to go deep , to crawl , to perform highly agile movements .
there are a lot of places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard a lot of them , whose problem is not too big a choice .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then it elevates my strength and resilience .
we are so far to introduce this device to our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton , this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair users , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are in the wheelchair around the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we often talk about very young people with spinal cord injury , who were in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , &apos; 40s -- being hit by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
your problem is you have too little .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since he , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is worn by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send back signals to our onboard-computer , which is attached here on her back .
here are also batteries , the motor drive is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints that move forward in this rather smooth and very natural gangs .
i was 24 years old , and i was in the best form when a monstrous purchase tree was paralyzing me during a ski trip .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
not long after that , a doctor went into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;re never going to be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he stole every five hope out of my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn to ski , to climb and even drive with the hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit called robin hood .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and annoying : steve levitt told you yesterday about how this more expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i fight as a help of a fireman in a volunteer delay the fire .
now , in our town , in which volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be very early on on the brink to be able to join .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer on the brink , so i had pretty good opportunities to get in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to get to the driver &apos;s seat and figure out what our jobs would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the treadmill and barefoot under a screen outside in the flowing rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- first reached the main man and was asked to go into the house and save the owner &apos;s dog .
the dog ! i was in favor of the dog .
there was some lawyer , or any lawyer of wealth , who could now tell the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than i was .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that you don &apos;t help .
well , i was next .
the main man blew me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go into the house .
you have to go up , past the fire , and you have to get some shoes from this woman . &quot;
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i had hoped for , but i went -- the stairs up , the hallway , past the real firemen , who had been sort of finished at that time with the deletion , to get some shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey back down where i met my nemesis at the front door and the beloved dog .
we carried our estimates out to the owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
a few weeks later , the fire guards got a letter from the owner , where they thanked themselves for the brave use to save their house .
they even hurt .
one about all the most valued kindness : somebody had actually brought her a few shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness on the large scale , but i also see the actions of the altruism and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and see people who either have achieved a remarkable success or are there on their way , i want to offer this memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in another &apos;s life until you get your first million .
if you have something to give , you have it now .
serve in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
not every day will give us a chance to save a human &apos;s life , but every day offers us the opportunity to change one .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
so they go ahead ; they save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m coming back from a community that knows the secret to humanity &apos;s progress .
it &apos;s a place where women are running the prescription with sex , saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relativity .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
if something from what enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have too little choice , not only would the lives of the people will be improved , but also our dignity improved .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we have emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by big , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because this leads to a very tolerant society where lethal violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to see .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the darkness itself -- the setting of a violent argument that has been ravaging for decades and almost challenged as many lives as the first world war .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
meat trade and the decline of the tree ingredient is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , also bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like conflict and social angels .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
play is increasing creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about creating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plaguing us .
and if you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the ticket that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique images from the wild right now .
first , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; it packs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it , right ?
yeah !
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a highly developed person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of bringing in new elements -- like the testicles -- and also how the game both demands trust and promotes -- while at the same time it &apos;s tremendous fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take a lot of shapes , some of which are a little bit quieter , a little bit curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they do sometimes , we play alone , and we select boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we form are the real nutritional ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also preserve a secret to our future , a future where we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and drug-enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
in other words , play is our adaptive joker .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this gold glass . &quot;
in order to successfully adapt to an unstable world , we need to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play is perhaps most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s hug this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover creativity and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , the same day , at exactly the same moment , every baby -- okay .
so two pairs , every baby .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because , if you imagine the production , you won &apos;t listen to me all the time .
imagine that just for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm has an x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are viable , both of them .
we &apos;ll come back to these guys later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they deal with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are physicians &apos; patients .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the point that the fish knows something .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who question social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people growing dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often i &apos;ve worked with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality comes in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a couple of examples of the kinds of sexual variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with an xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have , fetal stadium , grew up to testify .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone at the fetal stage gives off testosterone .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
because the truth is , if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you have no freedom . you have paralysis .
and that &apos;s called androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the figure , found nothing and concluded that these were the business cards of the devil , and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes up with something else here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of having eggs and uterus , they actually have testicles in them , and they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think this person is male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
if you break the gold glass , so everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , as i do -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk to androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the implication is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was more exposed to androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgen defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be spread across the entire bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just found that he had ovarian sticks and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbladder .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitaly was male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- nobody knew anything .
they increase the paralysis and reduce happiness .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , actually , because he was inherently menstrual that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just one quick example of an intersexuality variation .
some people with xx chromosomes , develop something called ovotestis , where ovotestis is wrapped up by high tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with these kinds of bodies -- whether it &apos;s dwarf , or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- are often adapted to the norm by surgeons , is not because that would be advantageous to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they &apos;re often done with various kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic jump is accompanied with a particular identity .
so we have the concept that being a woman is having a female identity ; being a black person is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of their own story .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most exciting recently was the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the body chatlethik world championship in berlin .
many journalists called me the question , &quot; what will you do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t have a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and intersexual , and intersexual , and so on , we are the one that gives this line as natural .
so we have a situation where , the further our science goes on , the more we have to admit that these categories that we had thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories , are much less sharper than we thought .
this is almost as limited as full security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
we &apos;re starting , for example , to the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward and forward , we get into a zone of discomfort , where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as a beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , is the struggle over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes a human being , so that it &apos;s a different right than the fetal life .
we have very difficult arguments today -- perhaps not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
but the absence of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i guess , disaster .
our ancestors used to never have that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve been holding a feather under their nose , and when they moved , they haven &apos;t buried them yet .
if they were no longer moving , they were buried .
but today we are in a situation where we want to take people &apos;s vital organs and plant them to other people .
and as a result , we get caught in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and this brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m progressive politically , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are actually much more insecure than we thought made me excited .
and it makes me think about democracy in terms of consideration .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
thank you very much .
i know they were racists , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i find that they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years , i found myself looking at the narrow musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what she proved was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another one that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years was measurable to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the masters of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of the birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the notion that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
you know , i talked about some of these projects earlier , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
they nivellized the playing field , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities counted , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightened system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science also grew .
if you look at the history of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , back , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth .
they moved to a naturalistic concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic common .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and they &apos;ve prepared , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were aspirational about voting , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; we have a uterus and an egg hive is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to ownership , etc . &quot;
and women successfully argued that .
next was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who spach , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the civil rights movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people different skin color , which are based on anatomical similarities in front of anatomic differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing with the disabled legal movement .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to ask , why do we keep certain separations ?
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
well , i want to sustain certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from the anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try and figure out what they are and why we keep them , and whether they make sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been brought back at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months early , so she &apos;s born on june one , 1980 .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday date , so he &apos;s born on march 1980 .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months before heinrich , she acquired all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to take care of , the right to vote , the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time he was born .
we find other odds about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume that he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be attracted , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
but waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
on the other hand , maria can &apos;t see the same right in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only maria today marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these lasting anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is making such advances in the anatomy area , that we have to make a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , it feels like science is self-assembling .
so where do we go ?
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
it seems like our culture is a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at a point , decided that to marry a man means that you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story i told you about the androgen receptor defect .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream , &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should judge people , not after their skin color , but after the property of their character , and go beyond anatomy like this .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
how do you judge people because of their character properties ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people that way , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever , which probably deserves socially rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labradors who are more capable , more intelligent and more mature decisions about their sexual relations than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the character ?
it turns out to be really hard .
and part of me is , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible using fmri ?
do we really want to go that way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
we go through initiation rituals .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we would do our thing well in the future .
we don &apos;t have the situation , like it is , for example , in iran , where a man who &apos;s drawn sexually to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to subtract a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins with them to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i phones with him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be very poorly treated , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of an operation to separate them ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change the state .
so i think we have to be leadership .
well , just to conclude , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or might have looked like if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern from different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply group thinking .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender differentiation .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
and one of the things that i found really interesting was the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and how they operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relations and caring for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation to do .
years ago , when i went to graduate school , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i thought of myself as a feminist , and i &apos;m going to do it -- really a curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about resolving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is , there could be something , on average , which makes female brains different from male brains more aware of highly complex social relationships , and more attention to the protective needs .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of figuring out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers in this concept , we &apos;re going to get more of a concept of not just how to protect each other , but how to care for each other .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we &apos;re going to take democracy beyond anatomy -- less to think about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that , as people , we try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find , at every opportunity , a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also to photograph and blog recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of the second hand on flew markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment , and also the money exchange .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after another , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping for my own personal searching .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i packed here at ted for this exciting week .
i mean , what does someone bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i came to palm springs first .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i do that , i &apos;m going to share with you some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
and so we started asking , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
this whole outfit , including the jacket cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i carried all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be bad , if you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing &apos; dressing &apos; or i remember her seven-year-olds .
does chemistry enable you to create these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize this for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside there &apos;s a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
we should be able to rock everything we want .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously that &apos;s not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
they were drilling each other .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to put these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit , waiting for me if i have a little love in the heart and seek it .
thank you very much .
thank you .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a point of view , as a flying point of view .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because there &apos;s something very interesting happening in formula 1 in the past decades .
a while ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car , has a couple of thousand sensors that are passing the information from the car , and then passing that information to the system , and then processing it , and then using that car to send back decisions , and changing things in real time as information is collected .
this is what they would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the open .
and as computers in the open , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , that &apos;s actually a big deal .
by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- they produce up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
beyond the cities , all this sense and drive into objects of everyday life .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but still expanded , and our final point would now be on an exponential curve .
this is from an exhibition that organizes paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a certain sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and this is radically changing the interaction that we have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means he took the hammer at the end and he threw it on moses -- you can still see a little spot underneath -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
let &apos;s start with the perception .
we started this 15 years ago .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- that &apos;s a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network , that are collected from the operator anyway , to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the head rush .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the river tiber .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a tor . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head shoot .
italy wins . yeah .
dna synthesization turns out to be very hard .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of victories and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today , in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
so , very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know all about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
but we know very little about where things go .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes happen .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to mark the things that they were throwing away -- different kinds of things that you can see -- things that you would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , stuck on the trash and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
but that &apos;s what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
so we had to develop a new way to put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day , the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re throwing away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , we could make a change in behavior .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could give you a lot more sense of this , and the many other wonderful things you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk to you about the second part that we were discussing at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition to use water as part of architecture in public places .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
they cause something like a water curtain with images of water .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
if these images fall down , you can write on it , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the expo entry .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach them , it will open up and it will let them in .
the roof was also covered with water .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can actually leave the roof down .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , as in this case , you know , those days when you drive down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
54 percent of the deaths happened by drilling through .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was a much more fun one .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to make it , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
we made little pieces , made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the images of water , and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine if these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each one of you with a little bit of a change light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the space .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacteria , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
or unregularly , in three dimensions where what changes is the light , not the position of the points of view .
they can play with different species .
imagine if the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then this could only be a 3d cloud of points of images that you can go to , and through which you move , which you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller that goes down to shape the same v as before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the same way we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is controlled by people .
it could have a impulse every single image that comes from people , from people &apos;s movements , or something like that .
i want to show you something first here .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york , and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the dots , the different captured impressions .
it &apos;s also a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the images , you can play with it and play with color with gravity and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said that they had this model right .
the idea is , again , imagine that we &apos;re going to bring people back to do something and change the environment -- almost like what we call a cloud movement , to put in a cloud movement , but with a cloud cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation for a picture .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened in the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to address the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we then move from the digital world to the physical change ?
so the idea is that we actually include the people in which they combine things , collectively .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way as a cloud is a cloud of particles .
they laughed more than you do here .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of points of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but it &apos;s covered in images .
you can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments of olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain peaks .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very important about the context .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected to each other .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was struck by awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me was racing almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
ice mountains are born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice shelves .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they interact with their environment in a clear way , and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and clump to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , you think easily that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , just as we humans often see ourselves .
but the truth is far from it .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it had more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought we would build it in cassette tapes of the size of the virus , where we could variate the size of the cassette tapes to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its ancient atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m taking my pictures of these icebergs as if i &apos;m making portraits of my ancestors , conscious that they exist in these individual moments of this way , and will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it now .
on the left , you see a little boat .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information has to be really flawed .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please notice the shape of the iceberg , and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you another side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on was this guy .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was at a mistake per 10,000 base pair .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the 1980s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that as well .
tempt today is completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
we found 30 mistakes in resquiring , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;re in the higher social class and you have a remarkable insurance , you can actually do that .
ordinary people are not available to these devices . &quot;
we followed the geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people something about it , they assigned that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear .
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving bell &quot; ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead , i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to resolve it .
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
i committed to the place to his brother and father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s still carrying all that can &apos;t communicate . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw with a laser pointer on it , which is just registering the negative surface .
so they &apos;re moving around and making art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the vaccine parts , and then the word comes in , and then the bush publishing , and the last thing that people actually do is art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home , and i ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control your eyes to guide things , we should find a way that speed can control a laser , so he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
that was the beginning of the journey .
we &apos;ve built unique elements in here .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first of all , we got the insurance to the doors , and actually got a device for pace that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we also have flown seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my kids and i have moved into the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy physicists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and we came back and all the images on the walls were graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the boardroom in venice , my kids got involved , my dog also , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the beach boardroom of venice , some copper wire , and a couple of things from the building market and the electronics trade .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built in watermarks .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can be crossed .
no hospital .
any paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back at the speed of the room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of somebody else , and that &apos;s his room .
now there &apos;s all this rumble in front of the great unveiling .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties , and pervasive nights , tony , for the first time , drew again after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve got his bed up so he can look outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
and luckily , we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spraying scene .
at the end of it , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone grabbed down and pulled my head up so i could breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
this is something like our fight .
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
that keeps us at the pole and keeps us going .
and we need to do a lot better with this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic blackboard coming in .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve got all kinds of recognition .
we won some prizes .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
armstrong tweeted about us , and then , in december , we were honored by the time-magazine when one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this -- and this is the whole circle -- is that there &apos;s going to be an exhibition in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will probably be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is quite abandoned .
so i &apos;m basically talking about this : if you see something that &apos;s impossible , you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with a broad technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should be asked each of you , every single day , that you have to get something done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who will be ?
thank you .
at first , we just signed .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come along like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the school coat .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin toilet of green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do an aids organization work .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman posting , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man i know you &apos;ve found him .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to please hurry . &quot;
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight for their family because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , she turned into a box full of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , that part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this is so often mentioned today .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that included five to seven thousand letters , put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs the same -- he would need love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as they go up to 1,000 meters .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
imagine a plane full of smoke .
imagine a power station that makes a bag , a bag , a bag , a bag , a bag , a ack , a bag , a bag .
that sounds terrifying .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at her in a minute , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t so far away .
in every step , we made these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process of what you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set out the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the engine .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the lowest words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; get ready for the impact . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
i could see it in their eyes , there was terror , life was over .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought of all the people i wanted to reach a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do , and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i noticed a phrase , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is that far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything more in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair latitude -- i thought , boy , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i was attacking .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regret the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to get negative energy out of my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and that is , as the inner clock begins , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , count down . &quot;
you see the water coming .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of dying , man , is not terrifying .
it &apos;s almost like preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i went to see an emergence of my daughter -- first graders , not much artistic talent ...
... not yet .
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that uses biology to repair dna that can assemble those pieces .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized then by connecting the dots to each other , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to see in the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would they do that they would push up because they think they would be there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
and more than anything , are you the best parents that you can only be ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans that &apos;s three million races of radiation .
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is actually quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can combine the systems that control the scriptures and valves , then we can actually create a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows-virus to be used on a laptop that &apos;s used by a waiting engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
so we start with a windows dropper .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damages the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- assignment .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research at stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this structure was .
the only thing we knew was very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he did a lot of zero- day- weaker use .
and it seemed to have something with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed on it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
it didn &apos;t make any sense in my eyes .
12 to 24 hours later , it all fused back together as it was .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this was a target attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively on the gray box , when a specific configuration has been discovered , even when the specific program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a u.s. power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attacks code , and we found that it &apos;s structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they needed to attack .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s a clip from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get out of this code .
so the first thing we did was we looked for systems function calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
and then we looked for timer and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
these organisms can be totally dried out , they can actually live in the vacuum .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could make or disprove .
to make these theories , we call ourselves to remember that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely in iran , because most infections have been reported there .
well , there are not several thousand goals in this area .
it &apos;s basically going out to the bay nuclear power plant and on the uranium incentives in natance .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what kind of animal .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; get me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client base . &quot;
and i called them up and tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even to explode the centrifuge .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to make it happen slowly and secretly -- obviously in the attempt to make waiting engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get there quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precise data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
so again , this was really good together .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
and this gave us great confidence for the one that we studied here .
well , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved through several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading towards the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in interaction with six cascades and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s soundness , and it &apos;s just nail .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s something really cool that we discovered -- actually got me out of the socks .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we made using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefi mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them . yeast then automatically assembles them .
down there is the gray box , and on top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the values that are coming from sensors -- so for example , printing sensors and vibrational sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going to attack , with the wrong data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the pursuit hunt , the surveillance system is fed with previously recorded video footage .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not only the idea , but the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overcome a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
so in a power station , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within milliseconds .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and when they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system , will notice .
that &apos;s scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranium richness .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for those attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
these are pictures taken over a six seconds long .
we need to consequence , and we need to start preparing ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people suspect that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is the cyberpower .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
this is the publication that we just finished recently .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult , and at the same time somehow dangerous .
i went to jail -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing myself to the most part of my career of terrible situations , and it &apos;s all for the attempt to look at social belonging and interesting , and hopefully in a way that makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was coming here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
some of you may have heard about the fact that a couple of weeks ago , i turned on an ad at ebay .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure that has ever been created by humans .
i sent some facebook news , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re seeing , which at the time had no title or a lot of content , and not a lot of evidence of what that would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presents here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and it could ever fly around the ears after content , especially if i loaned your company for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
it has over 300 million molecular weight .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could tell me to go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as this guy in the room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what &apos;s happening in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely connected with brands -- from the front sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
that was more to emphasize .
if we were to print it with a 10 or no distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
it was &quot; eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not only going to have the brand x as a front sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every category we can do in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and he will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies .
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , an awareness of the greatest movie ever sold .
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help do this .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how receiving people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how that &apos;s going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde volliot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer is most likely to be no .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing for me ?
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
jk : both .
... so , doesn &apos;t mean that optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to do with ...
there are some places that we can turn to .
it &apos;s just as easy when you put it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
imagine the camera .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just so all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept , the idea of advertising , was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people see as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this interface of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium tool that brings the masses of this message .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
now , archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can do a complete transplant of one chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
actually , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this image is for is a problem .
you see , if you put transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your species , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bag , just discovering and looking through , instantly understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly speaking , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes so we could choose this chromosome . we deconstructed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;ll estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
but when it comes so far that it &apos;s supposed to be done , something changes .
but why ? well transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is the risky thing ?
a whole shell of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
you see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
the new chromosome went into the cell .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because there was only one company , an agency ready to help us -- and that &apos;s just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go straight to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , giant hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make small independence movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
every time i go out , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
in fact , we thought that &apos;s the end here , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they that far ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe before the interview , you should have a little bit of this . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or a &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short socket .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite socket .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we are a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone &apos;s doing under the eighth .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of any place , adding thousands of characteristics every time in just a second to a species .
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar concert .
what about me ? what about the pressure types ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who is like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
i don &apos;t know .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i really like beautiful clothes .
1980s revival hits scaterpunk , except the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray sounds and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , reliable fly .
woman 2 : partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girl -- i don &apos;t know .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell the museum around the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicts .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself at the interface of dark glamour and truthful fly .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve already added .
and what i noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could go into my head , somebody who could really help me understand what they call &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they have helped companies like nestle , fatty , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for them , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
that &apos;s what i have . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
tell me about this world .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just one cell with a new chromosome .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world in which you live -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come from one place , and for me , they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
in the context of that , is that the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i want to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are strange . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
it &apos;s colored blue because of the genes that we &apos;ve added .
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
this doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of that .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
the first thing i saw was this idea that your brand personality has two separate , but it has a complete pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight-page brand .
they do very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with it .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to be scared , they &apos;re going to be these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a skilled chess .
what other brands are acting like this ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can see it here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful brand is a pretty strong thing .
an eight , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how about it ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that &apos;s going to bring blood into whales ?
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you something a little more quiet , more reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , outlandish and loving like erol flynn , agile and agile , professionals , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and monthers like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , sacred , thoughtful and like the dalai lama or yoda ?
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies , and they said , &quot; no , &quot; because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to be 17 brand partners who were willing to give up on this control that wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i am , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t usually have told -- stories that a advertiser would never have supported .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that we use mris today to pin the funeral centers of the brain , both to make advertising and movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no evidence , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are going to get their way to poor schools , all across america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i got the greatest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and what was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the movie was at the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
and according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
well , finally , the film has taken a very big moment .
and i argued that we may be creating a new form of cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their client to leave the fingers of it .
one of the things that i firmly believe in is that when you take your chance , you take risks , you take risks and you put them in these risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel like we have to encourage people to take risks in progress .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities that might scare them .
finally , as we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
there &apos;s a big spoon on each , so we welcome the risk .
why should we do that ?
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; they welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented with my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights at ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , what happened right now with the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check up 7100 dollars to fund my ted performance next year .
my name is amit .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i talked about doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who is today , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have access to many museums and those works of art .
so when i traveled , and i went to these museums , i started learning a lot .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- art more accessible -- with technology .
we &apos;re going to go from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where they are -- bombay , mexico , doesn &apos;t matter .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you want to orient yourself in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just go on . lots of fun .
hike them .
thank you , but the best one is still coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plus sign .
if the museum gave us the picture , click on it .
now this is one of the images .
today , three people on this planet have existed for everyone in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;m clicking this away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points ? &quot;
now i &apos;m going to show you this .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
but then they really want to go deep .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people fuel .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , i talked to some famous people at the met , and actually found out that it &apos;s a game called squail , where a gans on the tuesday is being beaten with a stick on the day .
it was apparently quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
the best one , though , is in a second .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge for nine .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was to find detail .
but what if you want to see the brush strokes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i really am at the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen that way before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have the time .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30 billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
it &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can make your own collection .
simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
that &apos;s the donor , in the national allery .
you can put it all with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things here don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come out of the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
they come from artists .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question that i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do that to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
for example , that would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain at this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is in both hemisphere at the same time .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good share of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good share of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
we have now , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing at the same time can only be in a place .
it &apos;s interesting .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing at the same time is in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a kid playing on a floor .
he was another little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he fell all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t leave you alone , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they &apos;re not playing with soil swells , but with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you realize all kinds of weird things -- like you &apos;re flying directly through walls , or that you can be in two different places at the same time .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
it didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles that often .
well , i play with them sometimes , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all these things are made of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t all follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
so i would feel a lot better with the whole thing , if somehow we could show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the ones that we think of .
so , a few years ago , i went to do exactly that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a minute .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to make it bigger . we &apos;re going to look right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
we have technologies today because of these rapid synthesization methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and i racked on all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool formed hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in quantum mechanical superposition , but it needs a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things , because i don &apos;t want to harness them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that passes on them and the heat of the space .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see this piece of metal behaving quantum mechanically , we had to kick out the whole travelers .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and then we did .
we turned off the lights , put it in a vacuum , and we sucked all the air out , and cooled it up until almost now , all by itself in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just lying there , it was vibrating . the way it was vibrating was kind of like this -- like a stretching and cohesive bladder .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean for an object at the same time to vibrate and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or making new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
just too precise times , they agree .
for the rest of the time , they &apos;re dolphalized .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places at the same time , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth me in the clean space for all this year , because , you know , you check that out , the scale difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in several places at the same time , how would that feel ?
how would your consciousness deal with your body being delocalized in space ?
and it &apos;s just selection . we can selectively select to life , production of chemicals or fuel production , vaccines and so on .
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , and we turned on the lights , and we looked at the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it is that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of the quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
it should be our goal that when families think about where they want to live and work , they &apos;re given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , which you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
right now , we &apos;re far from that goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even available a single city that would welcome them .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could take the world very easily with the duration , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , if you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
now , just swap out the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments are already doing this ; half of them don &apos;t yet .
they could try to expand the capacity of the apartments that exist already .
but you know what they &apos;re going to get into , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid complaining and deflect from degradation .
so it turns out to be very hard to get all these extensions .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what the genetic code is going to look like .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of apartments , provided that the laws there would support such a building and not stop it .
so i proposed that governments are creating new areas that provide enough space for a city , and i gave them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that about the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 honeybees left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an undefeated area of our country -- what if we just put it in a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian bottom-up -- and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything on the surface of these messages that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a massive summary crisis .
in the next planning elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program both promised innovation and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his steep .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
by improving , by testing , by studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give new technologies great attention , but for progress , it requires technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him jafour again .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so in december , we met in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember , in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
you &apos;ve seen corn too ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
so the tedtalk was in a very simple form that a charter city is a place where uninhabited land is a starting contract that determines the laws that govern there and give people the opportunity to either live or not among these rules .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we need to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we move forward our country .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
so i gave another talk with facts , which included a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans that if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and aware .
we have third-generation fuels that are coming out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the aid of partnerships , they could benefit from their partnerships , who they would support in the legislation of this charter , and in the process that everybody can trust that the charter can actually be done .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the implementation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city would be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and suspicion for many years .
we went into an area .
this picture is from this place .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as a source material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
it sums a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted with congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional regime that is reliable for specific development areas .
in a country that has just come out of a major crisis , congress has been elected for this change in the constitution with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after that election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines went to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
the one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a large , new city center built in south korea , big one than the city center .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first with the fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
the other place that was very interested in urban building is singapore .
there have already been two cities built in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you basically think about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court , as a court for the incentive of the legal system there .
also urban designers and farmers are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been explained , is there are many rders .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to settle in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place all the time .
a million people leave latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they are single mothers who have to earn enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even kids who are trying to find their parents , who they , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about this in honduras , building a whole new city ?
or even stupid of building these cities or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities competing for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which , according to a typical american on a day , is 70 .
also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the various topics that this ceo is doing , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics was , of course , made up of many , many smaller decisions .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation by death , and so we shouldn &apos;t be surprised to all of us singing , dancing and art .
50 percent of your decisions were made or less in nine minutes .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
how good do you think you &apos;re at making the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern times , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , you know , because i &apos;m blind , just the hand , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the decision-making problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank sewage .
i loved going to this business , but at one point , i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years of olive trees .
so one day , i decided to visit the filier , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the buses of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s your marble aisle .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
we put a little food sink right on the entrance of the business .
it turns co2 into methane , using hydrogen as an energy source .
we put six different flavors of marmelade there , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first , i would have what case more people would stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when they were 24 , about 60 percent than when they were six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were buying more of a glass of marble .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stood still when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marble .
of the people who stayed when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marble .
now , when you do the math , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who you had six choices than if you had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marble is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the overlasting problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 that could just be brought into production stores , converting co2 into fuel to drive this process .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the choices for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsers that were possible to a retirement plan , the 401 plan , is the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a context .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that would offer people something between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , the more fonds , in fact , were less likely to participate .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans that offered two fonds , they had a subsequent rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the subsequent rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now , it turns out that even if you are to participate in the absence of more choices , even then it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to give them the more opportunities , the more they rented it , the more they actiles and fonds .
the more opportunities they were available , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
none of these extreme decisions , belongs to the decisions that people would recommend when we care about their future financial well-being .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in people who are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re pushing up , even if it &apos;s against their own best interest .
they make rather worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to choose things that they make themselves less satisfied , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marble , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparisons and settlements and then actually choose something from the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that it &apos;s less .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
you know , we really have -- modern goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? a main source of energy .
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real estate .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to get rid of it , and the unimportant opportunities are getting rid of it , well , then there &apos;s an increase in sales , there &apos;s the cost goes down , there &apos;s &amp; amp ; em &amp; gt ; &amp; lt ; / em &amp; gt ;
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of its 10 best sales of cat streams , they found that the profits went up 87 percent -- a result of both the sales increase and reducing the cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today , is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that recently came out of the market , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson was very much involved in , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff now automatically takes part in a lifetime fund .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fonds , not 300 or more fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re currently working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
now , before we started lunch , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to provide a single , including the most beautiful street in this audience .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i want to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap if you &apos;re ready to take on gary &apos;s offer .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take on gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it with the flu this year , we &apos;re always on the back for a year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of it .
you knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
good .
in fact , it &apos;s objective , the first time it had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that the second time it was real .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology , which helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overload , it &apos;s concrete .
it &apos;s about people having to understand the difference between possibilities , understanding what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be vivid and concrete .
i think that can be changed by making recombined vaccines in advance .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an eco card or a credit card than on cash ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel like we really feel money .
and it turns out that if you do it , something feels concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as it has always been , just added a little thing .
the little thing we added to it was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
by doing this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four percent increase in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
the third technology : categorization .
we can do better with more categories than with more choices .
for example , here &apos;s a study we did in a magazine .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaeas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
it turns out that in the way that supermarkets are up and down in the northeast area , the number varies between 31 different kinds of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and divide them into 20 categories , you believe that i gave you more choice and a better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 , if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other one is called swing .
if you think the left ad is swing , and the display on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there &apos;s a couple .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
okay , a few more .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to say something to the voter that doesn &apos;t provide the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we need to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : buying a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer that gives you the ability to completely configure your car itself .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these choices are different from the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car color , outcolor of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i do now is i change the order in which the decisions seem .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
what am i looking at ?
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re constantly using the standard choice in the decision , that means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the healthiest , i &apos;m losing you .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the very small choices they can choose over and over again the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little choices to the many , then they stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is choosing , telling me nothing about my preferences at the interior , it &apos;s still preparing me to choose .
it also gets me excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to get motivated to be with interest .
so it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment that has ever been approached -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that mitigate the problem of decision-overlapping -- limited -- get rid of the obsolete alternatives ; concrete -- do it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less options ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques i describe to you today is meant to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective .
and the more we are selective , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube . i look at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video becomes viral , and then we want to talk about why that &apos;s important at all .
we all want to be stars -- famous singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinite .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
but web video has allowed us all , or all of our creative activities , to become terribly famous in a part of the culture of the world .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet until next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , just a tiny percentage ever gets viral and is looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that there was no religious faith in sub-saharan africa , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
whoa !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
ohhhhh , wowwwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in the yosemite national park in front of his house .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you &apos;re doing when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
what happened here ?
this is the machine underneath geneva .
there was jimmy kimmel coming .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who eventually made the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everyone &apos;s look forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . ttin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graph looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
if you want to know it , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 fork it , lots of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on it on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared with a large audience and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insiderjoke , and they started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endless loop .
this is what i &apos;m working on . he &apos;s called atlas detector -- 44 meters across , 22 meters in diameter .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 50 million times this year .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that is in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
a whole remix community came out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
today we &apos;re not just enjoying something , we &apos;re doing .
who could have looked at this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what are the scripts that you could have written that would be in ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only truly unique and unexpected can emerge as the videos i mentioned before .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested , when a friend told me to watch this great video , about a guy who protests in new york against a ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket , because i didn &apos;t go to the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats &apos;s funny idea and his argument was looked at five million times .
this approach is true of anything new that we do creatively .
and all of this leads us to a big question ...
on september 10 last year , the machine went on for the first time .
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative community , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and in which the audience is popular .
as i said , one of the greatest stars right now -- justin bieber -- made his start on youtube .
no one has to give green light to your ideas .
and today we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the pieces of the puzzle .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind when he marches the communicators in saigon , as he must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now joking his .
he moved back into silence .
he died , broken through history .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
it caused immense juble in the control room .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to squeeze us , but we were over it .
the next piece of puzzle shows how a boat in the early morning red is silent in lake .
my mother mai was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for them , life had challenged her : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film ripe , saga glided a boat silently to the lake as a fishing boat .
all adults were aware of the risks .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put all the way around the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to have a rain of particles collide on the detector .
the biggest fear was pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother carried a little poison bottle .
when i took a prisoner , my sister and i would have drank myself and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady virtue of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bow , the width and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirate that came many times , but the death toll of men on our boat , or the outfall of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that gave me one of the men on the platform .
no apple ever tapped that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations that together build a new life .
we settled in footscray , a working-class suburb , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , footscray had no sophistication thinking .
the smells from the ladder barriers came from the rest of the world .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
and the fates were broken out of english between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double-layers .
it sort of managed to find the time to acquire english and i.t. qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was divided , and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , the new things that always came from second hand .
two strands for school , each one , to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the ankles , because it had to reach six years .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; smiley eye , &quot; and here and there are mural eyebrows : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
i don &apos;t know if this made the biggest juble , or this is when someone went to the google page and found the front page like this .
home where ?
something happened in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat with nightmares .
and my job was to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came so that i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , and then she made a cosmetic education , and she opened another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and inflexible , and sorted kids , caught between two worlds .
loans and sponsors were searched .
it means that we have a cultural impact alongside the scientific achievement .
centers have been built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one i was the classic asian student , who made relentless demands for himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe life , carrying the tragic scars of violence , the drug abuse and the isolation .
but so many people got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was selected in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next catapult , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous footscray resident , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who was invited to speak in places that she had never heard of , and in housing , whose existence she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who graduated every single day as they have for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youth and education , and the neglect of marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine runs on high performance .
and even though i graduated from my degree , i realized that i couldn &apos;t deal with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newly , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because there &apos;s so much to be part of the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
opportunities that were not allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an unbitter optimism , a strange mixture of humility and grace .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for which the box doesn &apos;t &quot; have an irresistible challenge .
for a year we didn &apos;t have a cent .
now , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
at the end of a day , i was cooking a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to go to the u.s .
after just a trip there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm , and the local mandarin was the most important person .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
with no support for her husband , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to court and being a claim in her own case , and an even bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turns out to be untrue .
i just showered in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their coffin .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold out the tension .
we told her stories , and we made sure that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the coffin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you look at who we were , and how life has shaped us , we can see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come into our lives .
the defeat would have been too simple .
now i &apos;d like my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
in one of the connections , between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory defect .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life that dries courageously every wave , the inexhaustible , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this , and i could surely get it through , i would .
also , tans &apos;s mother today is in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it any photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
so the wires are lightweight and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
i combined it with my former preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because when i was using the camera , the process was actually planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process begins when the trigger is expressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much more rigid road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and it still lays out a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful , but all with the common goal to keep a realistic level .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
this was the result .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like you could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
the living ones give rise to the spirits .
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
now , this is all even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re checking our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it really makes sense .
and i see the same process combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
but if we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to make a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same lighting .
and these two pictures are fulfilling these two demands -- shot from the same height and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images begin and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges to the individual images , adding photographic scarcity , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photo , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
and they had to remove what we did .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely compiled from photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than a place , because you don &apos;t have to have a compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it would take me several months to plan them to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a jar trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
and yes , i even colored the house on the top of the island red to make it look swedish .
we reconditioned them , repaired them .
to get to a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to be looking at planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good footage , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that &apos;s limitting us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point about this is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
and one of the things that we introduced at radboud university was to make a major listener .
you &apos;re all back on your way now .
and she &apos;s not particularly scientific -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea , and she asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do we do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe just most of the electronic health projects fail : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
it has a button , a button .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it &apos;s also sending my data to google health .
and that &apos;s where they &apos;re called off by my general doctor , so he can see where my weight problem is , and not just the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a glimpse into the past .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i &apos;m jumping on my wireless scale , and people are talking to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer forced , peer forced to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be depleted to patients to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
next week , this is what comes to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure detector that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , not only can they take control , be captain on their own ship , but can also help us with the challenges that we face , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
make methods that are easy to use , and start to hug patients on the team .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to be able to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
and they can do that through these methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a quick video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms around maastricht are .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
now , of course , in a way that accidents , again , the debate about the value of science and engineering on those limits . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
so , what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds were already reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and we want to do this today , not just as aed4u , as it &apos;s called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relativity or somebody else , you can find an aed like this .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world help us confirm these aeds .
these could be a curiosity service , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us , and try to improve health not just , but to take care of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to tell you about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... pay attention to the crowdsourcing .
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
i &apos;m going to leave you with my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , when he defused the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind than to assume that our scientific ideas are finally valid , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumpts are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump over this -- instead , i &apos;m just going to skip the video ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
the spirits can be charged by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of the dance , to temporarily deny the soul of the living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a brief shining moment .
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you .
so a couple of years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take out a year and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything they hate , and we let them work in the government .
thank you .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peacekeepers for computer freaks .
we select some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to the city hall .
and they developed great apps there , worked with urban collaborators .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freeing him up when he &apos;s fiddled , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the burning when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , and we had the code for america &apos;s program .
i &apos;m a writer .
they were there in february , and they did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never swallows these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik na ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freaked the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you &apos;re tuned with him when it &apos;s fast .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
this is a modest little app .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s more than that , of course .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s rapidly spreading .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use these app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them , so that people can freak out the buercher sticks when it &apos;s fast .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use these app .
and it &apos;s spread futureless , organic , of course .
it &apos;s also my big , lifelong love and fascination .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
the software collection usually takes a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months .
it was about a method with which parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it had gone over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that cost the taxpayer two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app , which is written in a few days , and then it spreads from rare , is a kind of a shooting in front of the bug to the institution of the government .
it shows how the government could work better -- not more like a private company , how many people think it should .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sale-needed institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and this is a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a large community of people who are making the tools that we need in order to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america , &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country writing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
however , there &apos;s been something strange happening in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and that is , if you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake in the workforce and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do in common , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up on the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is changing .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like many people , i thought the government was mainly about choosing people in an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that , most of all , it &apos;s about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
you usually get out there when you call 311 in your city .
and this strange event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called na eat , pray , love -- which , unlike all my previous books , for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international best seller thing .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people , the government , calling for many different problems , including that a marsupial is in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very noisy music and see if the livestock is skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i was to the end .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- this is what came in : &quot; thylacines in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happened to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
seriously , the demise is refused .
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . this is where the digital meets the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform here .
i &apos;m talking about a platform for people to help themselves and help other people .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
and you could have connected them with government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to state services .
for example , you come up to me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to meet that success ?
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal tracker , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to remember this is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
and so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white people go to church and talk about god .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how many times have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject ourselves , and we expect the government , reflecting our values and fulfilling our needs , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
but it &apos;s this contempt that we have , and that we pay for , that makes something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
are you not afraid that you will continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world cares about ? never again ?
people seem to think politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we need to rely on the machinery of government .
so the occupypythesec movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the reform of finance .
this is not politically active , this is bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time that we think about it , about the world that we want to leave to our children .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
okay , that &apos;s really courage .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to promote the function of government fundamentally in a way that can actually do something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting , about who &apos;s allowed to talk ; they &apos;re all allowed to talk .
you can make your opinion on every channel at any time , and you do .
so , if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
they use their hands .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i was a teenager for the first time , i wanted to be a writer with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to smash a fire hydrant , hunt uncrane , turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories , that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we going to be just a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
my role usually is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think . and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can hardly keep up .
people said , don &apos;t you be afraid to never succeed ?
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a very short , boring slide .
... could you just show the slide for a second ?
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather , the general shape .
this slide shows data from us about the power of risc processors compared to the power of a local area network .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a power scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a testimony kills you ?
so , if you could turn on the light again .
just a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of technology that i want to show with a graph , then the graph becomes silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , that would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if transportation technology continued as fast as microprocessor technology , then tomorrow we could get into a taxi , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
but it &apos;s not so fast .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to take this craftsmanship and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrambling dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is rising exponentially every few years .
now the question i want to ask you is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two possibilities .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of what it is .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
so the question i want to ask , and i also often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be ?
something like this , you know .
what is this new state that the world is slowly adopting ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i was in this world .
i think the reason for this is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know that right now , it just doesn &apos;t make any sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple projection of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make any sense .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is yes .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we have to go back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that &apos;s what i want to look at on earth &apos;s time scale .
i think the big picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with many chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did that .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story about it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was blowing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow like that .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
these little oil droplet were , in a sense , the most primitive cell form .
yes , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
but these oil droplet were not alive in today &apos;s sense , because each one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals have spread into unequal amounts of chemicals .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for growth more optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so , these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied at a greater rate .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but interestingly , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in a way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information , in a certain chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , they found a way , in this insane evolutionary way , that allowed them to write what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information is stored over the course of 2.5 billion years that it came out , it stayed the same .
and i always had that .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same type of writing .
and that is , every being uses the exact same letter and the same code .
we are so far that , just for the pleasure purpose , we can write things in this code ourselves .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i have 100 micrograms of a white pulver here that i try to keep in airports from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is , i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 or 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i was actually an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
writing dna was an interesting step .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
and i &apos;m scared of a lot more things that nobody would expect .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started communicating and exchanging information , so that communities were born of cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the durability is growing into antibiotics .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin , and they &apos;ve written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were more repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which function together as a single organism .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level in which evolution occurred was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step has happened within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed specific structures , which did nothing but processing information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , specific structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
but , when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i wonder , why ?
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the period of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than that evolutionary period .
so , for example , an organism could learn not to eat a certain fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years ago , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
she could take place in a time of learning framework .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so , for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
i &apos;ve got a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
is that reasonable ?
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving grunting sounds from me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stairs that have been through multi-cell organisms -- the abstraction of our methods of holding data , presenting it .
for example , the invention of language was a little bit of a step in that direction .
telephone , computers , video operators , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we &apos;ve built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
you also saw ty &apos;s little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they &apos;re calling to ?
so now we &apos;ve accelerated the time scales again .
the first steps in history that i told you , it took a billion years a piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so forth , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us uncertain about the other state of mind -- in a way that other jobs don &apos;t do ?
my current activity is to design objects with such high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connections machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give that to the machine , and the machine does something that far beyond our ability , far better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve been using a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that emerges from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , generators , a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
now , please perform all of these randomly chosen instructions , run all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that my prescriptions are the closest . &quot;
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
so in other words , i define first what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to sort numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve used for it .
so , find programs that are most likely to sorrow numbers .
of course , the chance in randomly chosen instructions is very small that , by accident , they &apos;re going to sorrow numbers , so probably none of the instructions are going to actually do this .
but one of them , if you &apos;re lucky , likes two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that i got closest to my prescription .
store them , delete the rest .
now , all the rest of them reproduce that the numbers have best sorted .
it &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog to reproduction . &quot;
take two programs , and they make kids through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of subroutines from the two programs .
your chemical block , john -- how do you do that ?
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluating them again .
maybe lead some mutations .
and try this again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can go through evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
i tried to understand them .
they are forbidden and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i used to sit in a 747 , along with marvin minsky , he &apos;s going to get a map and say , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an development process is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process which is very different from classical engineering .
it allows us to produce things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
but to be fair -- the chemist group didn &apos;t get the call of alcohol depressed people over the centuries .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is flipping us over .
now we use these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies of today are feeding themselves .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you get taken from the mind . how can you get hurt ?
we &apos;re going to pick up .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time when one cell organisms evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite make up what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creatives of all genres seem to have this reputation of being mentally unstable .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very tired of us to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
well , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here now before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was in the desert under the starry sky with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about how nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indian then , we jumped into a car and we swirled across the sky .
now we do this with airplanes .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna was thirst , he took a bow , he shooted in the ground and water .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , which died young and often by your own hand .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got some fear of technology .
it was frightening that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world full of pirate and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
it occurred to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
they kept us inspired by being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to enable magic instead of killing .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , and animation , sound and touch .
the storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
i &apos;ll just go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview , each of my books killed me a little bit further .
here it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i &apos;m going to be a figure in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the kid in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and release the fireflies .
and they were lighting the way through the rest of the book .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single murmur .
and so every book and every world becomes a small murmur that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magic device in the machine .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves to orient the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
we &apos;ve all heard about fees and nymps , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
but we don &apos;t even shrink when we hear somebody say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , somehow we &apos;ve accepted the notion so internal and collective that creativity and suffering are sort of together , and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul torture .
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years in an old book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that confronts new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the theme of environmental crisis , a big problem for the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this ritual of childhood is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a food today . &quot;
a kid in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you actually recorded .
there are a variety of ways to connect magic to the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you &apos;re using the video of the ipads , and through augmented reality , you &apos;re seeing an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to magic and technology .
we use the energy of the sun .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
we bring our kids and us closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in examinative , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the social weakest in the social settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have an impact on the world .
and sometimes , when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
i find them disgusting .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good , but as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t actually learn this in my work as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household , dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a weapon , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
she was also the starting point of a lot of arguments in our family .
and i think they &apos;re dangerous , and i don &apos;t want to watch them take over to the next century .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her world very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a young boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trancestate , the glowing coal without burn , an astonishing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a way that prevents when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hugging ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said yes , she left me alone .
she was something that made it , that you always wanted to be close to her .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creatives to live .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins went all over the place .
i remember i had to have eight or nine that i woke up one morning and went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was about 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me in her hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it was like it was yesterday .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to shrink this dark path of conjectory , especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in my career right now .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down , and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i was watching you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always care for her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;ll do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; next , i promise you will always do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack beer with her , my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as we were .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she assumed , and then she offered one to me .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , let &apos;s do that . today we do that , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had . go ahead , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
then he looked me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going crazy about the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
i was devastated .
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is valued by the world as the work that came from my last book &apos;s success , right ?
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i should probably not do that .
this may be transmitted in public .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never dropped a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all her grandchildren , they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
my uncles died of alcohol infected diseases .
i &apos;m saying it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my biggest success is behind me .
and she believed that these were the issues that we needed to care about .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different than 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in holidays and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are abandoned on currency or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , there &apos;s despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in jail , in prison , on currency , or with conditional punishment .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in jail , in prison , in insurance or in conditional exposure .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racism , it &apos;s also deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that &apos;s much better to treat them if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
yet , we seem to be quite happy with this .
a policy of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
my home state of alabama , permanently , deprives the right to vote when they &apos;re convicted .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start at 9 o &apos;clock in the morning , gin . and i don &apos;t want that .
here today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil liberties is going to be as high as before the passed of the election law .
the silence is earning .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-tenths children to death in prison .
in this country , there are life penalty sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we &apos;ve done a lot of work .
the only country in the world .
i represent people in death row cells .
i &apos;d better continue to do this work that i love .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is , did a human being deserve to die for a crime from him ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did someone deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we executed , one that we found for innocent guilty , which was discharged and released from death row .
an amazing error rate . one out of nine innocent .
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
so the question is : how ?
we would never let anybody fly on an airplane if , for nine planes to pick up , one would fall off .
but somehow we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the na i was from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue to write , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people were scared of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that formed their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that we have it for the first time in the history of our nation with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no , don &apos;t -- tell people we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the racial rendering and decades of the rapidly motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way of writing a safe distance between me and my very natural climb about what the reaction is going to be like in the writing .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the racial roughness is not too much to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; there &apos;s no death penalty in germany .
and of course , it can never be in germany . &quot;
there was a silence . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever stand up for the systematic killing of people .
while i &apos;ve been looking for models for this last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it would be unconscious of us to make conscious and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unconscious .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the complained black is white , and the victim knows -- in the same states where the earth is borrowing gelyner people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnection .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with this , with these difficult topics , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
we love innovation .
this quest led me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but ultimately , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , decomposition , boundary .
it seems important to me to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to be in a complex world .
to me , that means time to start thinking and to talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe , in the end , things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , we value intellect .
innovation , creativity , and development are not just coming out of our heads .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us to be not just open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chech politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought against oppression in eastern europe , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places , and to be witnesses . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities have to engage in .
there &apos;s no limitation to technology and design that allows us to be completely human , unless we have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
she &apos;s going to touch her deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she traded two of her oldest friends . these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-busboykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white , whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
so these women would come together and just talk .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , i love it . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so wing .
and one day , i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; now bryan , tell me what the call the same right initiative is . &quot;
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine dienery spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do something about injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocently convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the crimination system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional sentences for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
she said , &quot; she &apos;s going to be very , very tired . &quot;
the greeks called these divine dienery spirits of creativity .
then , woman carr leaned to me , put a finger on my face , and said , &quot; and therefore you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think the ted community should be braver .
we need to find ways . we need to face these challenges : these problems , these problems .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
if somebody takes something they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
it &apos;s known by socrates that he believed that he had a demonstration that would tell him from a farther distance .
even if you kill somebody , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there &apos;s a basic human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so stimulating , we &apos;re not going to be measured by our technology at the end , not by the things that we &apos;re developing , not by our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in that context , we &apos;re only beginning to understand the really amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose the balance . one story at the end .
sometimes i push too much .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body losemless creative mind a genius .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas are predicting our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of too hard punishment .
i go to the study prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and should be in court as adults .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people retreated into an isolated volcanic mass that rises above the caribbean coastal plain .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long and thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic powers .
right , bryan , the judge has magic powers .
you should also wish some .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think that anymore , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started this contract . the headline was , &quot; assignment , my poor , 14-year-old black clients , to treat like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that the misconduct of the state agency and the police and the burial errors were considerable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there was nothing wrong in this country anymore , that there was only misconduct .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed of this crazy post or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i had not only written him , but i had sent him to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go into the court and do this crazy case .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed that it was literally living in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and assisted the artist at work in a way invisible and created the outcome of the work .
so i went to the court .
and i thought this was going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase .
when i went up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitors in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered into my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
and i have to say , it gave me power .
that &apos;s brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
it touched something quite deep in me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you put this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office workers .
in the handturn , the courthouse of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
and everybody knew it worked like that , right ?
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came into the courthouse with a very concerned facial retreat and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , which was disturbing that the janitor was in the court room .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to say this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal out of the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is far off , but that it &apos;s going to rise to justice .
that we are not completely developed as humans , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that our entire survival is linked to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , for those of you who see this , i just want to say : don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard , help them and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a folk decision in this spring , which is to actually do a effort to redirect some of the money that otherwise flows into the politics of the punishment .
for example , here in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty . a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the killing devils don &apos;t end with arrested .
56 percent of rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
if your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t get to look at it all for you , and everyone knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this is going to suggest that money is going to invest in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violence .
it was the misguided cross against drugs .
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prison inmates .
if your work flew -- not entirely your mistakes , right ?
we teamed up from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have three violations , which bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of a little bit of good , instead of forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string here to vibrate .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk to riding .
two : famine in somalia . speaker three : o.c. spray of police .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit lazy .
4 : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
eight : tsunami warning . 9 : cyber-attack .
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . still . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but they could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds pay attention to these very topics .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
so people in the west have spent a long time thinking about creativity .
every second , our senses catch much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we don &apos;t care more about our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our riding detector .
it &apos;s sorting and coming through all the information looking for any kind of indication of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices , which , seven days a week , 24 hours a day , put all these negative news , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but perhaps that &apos;s not the case .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
and then the renaissance came and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- about all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures , the commands of divine .
maybe the enormous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strongly that in the next three decades we will be able to create a world of abundance .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have that .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can anticipate the development .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who have never been conquered by the spaniards .
in the last 100 years , average life expectancy has more than doubled , which is the appropriate average income in the world population has tripled .
child mortality has decreased by a tenth .
the other thing is that the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have decreased a lot of times .
steve pinker has shown us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , literacy rates have gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the past 130 years .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came from their own individual .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we keep increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
consider that a large percentage of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , climate conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the earth &apos;s imperators , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of many of these is creating technologies , and they &apos;re growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes an information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , will double the price performance quotient every 12 to 24 months .
so the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
that &apos;s moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
for the first time in history , people hear this or this artist call a genius -- instead of having a genius .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , in war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it slows down for none of our big problems .
also , despite her logarithmic process on the left , she goes upwards .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
cloud-computing , something my friends call &quot; infinite computing &quot; in autodesk , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production to democratize our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at &quot; risk ? &quot;
that was great .
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson is forced by human opponents . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence provided to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can positively affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about the fact that a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think that he is , or she is like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little bit too much responsibility to burrow them up a fragile , human psyche .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about making scarce goods abundance .
because scarcity is contexts , and technology is a resource of liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon i. in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold bribe .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is why the dome of the electron monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it &apos;s not as pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy spashes on the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
it &apos;s not scarcity , it &apos;s accessibility .
this deploys and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , you &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same current -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped 50 percent last year .
this came out last month with a study that showed that by the end of this decade , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy overload , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyage spacecraft in 1990 , when it moved by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it like ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
because we live on a water planet .
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are gone , and we &apos;re fighting at 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
they &apos;re new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technique called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether salt water , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology support innovation that we have today .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
and , if that &apos;s true , and i think it &apos;s true -- the question is , you know ?
you my goodness , we &apos;re going to get to the 70 percent reduction rate of mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013 .
just think that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you &apos;re looking for google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in the abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photo , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what we expect in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can pump , you can test your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health workers .
can we change it ?
if this device sequences a rna or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health department and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we go from two billion internet users to five billion .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will join the global communication .
what do these people need ?
maybe coming back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity .
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic concerns in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they will be healthier by using the tricoder , and they will be better educated by the khan academy , and by having the ability to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and so much more productive than ever before .
to this day , they are governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , unheard voices before ?
how about giving the oppressed wherever you are , a voice to pay attention to it and to create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
one of the things that i learned through the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that large companies and governments could only create in the past .
maybe not .
i want to conclude with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called the foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
and there are hundreds of thousands of people now who have played the game online .
maybe we can &apos;t just eliminate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it showed that today , human pattern recognition is better at folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as an assistant to the business manager in a rehab clinic at night , and was the best protein orator in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect some extraordinary decades .
thank you .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that are tracking people and applying fever magic to their projects and so on .
and i think it starts with a medical guy , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long enough time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving to the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon and turns around statistics and using this great baseball team .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 strokes .
that is , the ball hits the outside field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what it &apos;s called a 300ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
do you know what &apos;s called a 4,00ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold infection , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , doesn &apos;t it ?
imagine that you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease vessels , and your home doctor transfers that into a cardiologist whose average performance is in 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rise .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
what do you think the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday shelter , should be a rescue assistant ?
why not think about it that way ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we send each of them , including me , into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody &apos;s thinking about the details of how this should be done .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldman would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little nugget in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
i memorized everything .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane capability of the creative process .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and outliers of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubula azidose .
and all the time , i gathered more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated from cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met woman printer .
i resisted in a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my mission when the emergency staff cardiological advice was looking at the emergency patient .
and to give feedback back to my top doctor .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act properly .
i studied woman printer , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made clustering sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crunching sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart fails , instead of pumping the whole blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it fills this gradually , so the shorthand came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water pills , so she would say goodbye to the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
i felt really good .
in fact , sometimes he can feel really paranormal .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
actually , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the audience , and i did what i should have , which would have been a call to my doctor to illustrate it with him , so that he would have had a chance to make his own image .
and he knew it , he would have been able to contribute extra information to it .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the aid doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
and so i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to say , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was poet throughout her life . she told me that when she was growing up in the villageable virginia , she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
in fact , i was so lacking self-confidence that i asked the nurse who was taking care of ms. printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it was like it was yesterday .
so i signed the abandon papers and an ambulance and a rescue assistant and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the finstar , in stone huts at the depth of the glacier for 18 years , and two periods of each nine years , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their primary mother , they &apos;re now spending metamorphorphorphically in the lap of the great mother .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department on my way .
and there another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
she said it was like a thundering train of air .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency care is particularly because we see the patients just as volatile .
the three words are : remember that ?
&quot; remember the patient they sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse , in fact .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular audio .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she barely breathed and ran blue .
the emergency staff dragged all the strands .
it would roll across the country on them .
they gave her blood pressure elevator .
they hooked them up to the breathing machine .
i was shocked and displaced into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because , after the stabilization , it came to intensive care , and i hoped that it would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they came out of it .
the new day , they left her -- ms. printer , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of those who die .
she felt that if it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the prayer .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next few weeks , i made a plan , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one is swamped on a vanity , and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it , and i have a terrible discussion , but if you get the bad conscience at the end , and you swear that you never make such a mistake again .
if you do recovery and you never make the mistake again .
that &apos;s the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick inside .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my upper doctor , he was very dear .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was shining the weights and making sure i wasn &apos;t going to be sued .
she knew that she could only do one of those moments , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the doctor ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , it certainly did .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i might say , i can feel better again .
and i was talking to myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection and never made a mistake again , that the voice could be stumbling .
and she did .
and i kept working .
she ran like the devil to the house while it was pursued by this poem , and it was all about it quickly enough to get to a sheet of paper and a pencil , so that when it went through it , she could catch it and hold it on the sheet .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency ward in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i reviewed a 25-year-old man with a rich rage .
it was a lot going on , and i was in the hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the revenge , and it was a little bit of a pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even when he went out the door , he pointed at his rays .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief doctor asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient with the rich reef ? &quot;
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it would move across the country , and -- as she said , she was searching for another poet .
it turns out he &apos;s infected with a streptococca infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rake , it &apos;s the upper respiratory pathways , and it causes the exclusion of the respiratory pathways .
and luckily , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , feeling free , and went back to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold .
there &apos;s a lot of this , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there were probably no shortage in their treatment .
one thought i had kidney rocks .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague found a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate it , and asked my colleagues to review it as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they did surgery , and they did well .
both of these cases came to me , and they asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues claim is complete nonsense .
some of my buddies happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can voice the quiet voice that tells me what &apos;s really not going to happen , then how can i share it with my colleagues ?
so , she runs up to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then -- she said -- it was like her other hand grabbing it and getting it .
how can i teach you my mistakes so you don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i was in a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about somebody who was talking about failures about failures ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i went into a room full of colleagues and asked their immediate support , and started telling them what i just told you , i probably wouldn &apos;t get to the end of the second story before it really became uncomfortable , anybody would come to you with a joke , you would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me , i had trouble looking him in the eyes .
that &apos;s the system we live in .
it &apos;s a totally denial of mistakes .
there &apos;s a system in which there are two basic positions -- those who make mistakes and those who don &apos;t . those who confine sleep deprivation , and those who have no limitation , who have bad outcomes and good outcomes .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies attacking a human being .
she caught the poem on his tail and pulled it back into her body and took it over to the sheet of paper .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we banned those who make mistakes out of medicine , that we have a secure system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sentiment and journalism , i created a personal medical study about medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first articles i wrote for the toronto star show &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we work in a system where mistakes happen every day , where one in 10 medications is either a false or a wrong dose , where hospital infections are getting more and more and more numerous and devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of common errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is affecting the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
and that &apos;s the crux .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive mistake so that we can take a perfect pathology procedure for a breast pain patient .
and then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat him , and i sweat him , and i add a slightly alcoholic breath , and all of a sudden the story is overwhelmed with contempt .
and all that time , they &apos;re culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that keep the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
i don &apos;t take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they &apos;re not always telling me their symptoms in the same way .
all of that , in summary , is error inevitable .
so if you take the system in the way that i was taught to do , and you put all the flawed health professionals out there , there &apos;s no one left at the end .
and do you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
when i heard that , i thought , this is creepy -- this is exactly how my creative process is going on .
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit to say , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the cardiologist &apos;s chief , &quot; this is my worst mistake &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show the microphone to him .
and then your pupils expand , you &apos;ve come in front of your head , and then you look down and you swallow hard , and you start telling your stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that will allow them to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white for his humanity , accepted it , is not proud to make mistakes , but put everything out of it so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
she supports others when others talk about their mistakes .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
and it shows up to others their mistakes , not to just make them , but in a loving , supportive way , so that everyone benefits .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops into making backups that make it easier to make mistakes , make people inevitable , and also enable them to create loving , supportive spaces in which anyone who observes health care can actually address things that are potential mistakes and even rewarded for it , and that &apos;s specifically for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of these rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human being . i make mistakes .
but i feel regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you &apos;re holding , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
i &apos;m a mouthful . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day at the same time , get tired and really uncomfortable .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before that to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing fins , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
but even i in my masonry , sometimes this thing has ripped .
yet , we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , which is changing wavelengths .
because i experienced it when i was studying a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there , because i grew up in europe , and i later wanted to work in africa .
i thought i could integrate .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon was surrounded by palms and by some mangroves .
there were bunk barges of about 20 centimeters , black-and-white mouths , a subset of the bunk bark .
the fisheries of these buntbarfish were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on this , and they earned overaverage in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grow five centimeters .
they had been genetically expressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
and the fish was also fortunate to be there .
even i had work , or ideas that came from a source of me that i really can &apos;t identify .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my participation in the introduction of the trawl net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s , rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s , europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fishing promotion meant countries that have already caught 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this rather ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on that , and we made surveillance all over the southern south china sea , and especially in javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we got there .
now i know it was the bottom of the ocean .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubble , the rubber pile , were coral reefs .
basically , the bottom of the ocean came down to deck , and then it was thrown back .
what is this thing ?
these images are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you run a survey , and then you start with commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case , a hard reason or a soft coral becomes a mud crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we got a lively one .
she had not drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain is accumulated by fishermen every time they go into areas that have never been fished .
it &apos;s not documented .
and how do we relate to this without losing our minds , but to keep ourselves in spiritual health , on the contrary ?
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it &apos;s changing over time . it &apos;s changing , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that they take at the beginning of their conscious lives , as standard , and will derive all of them .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t perceive the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
and in the end , they just want to get the poor remains .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits , and i got to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
that &apos;s our goal , largely , now .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem was people who certainly lived in predatory societies , killed animals , and who had only been aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely , before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose very often occurring animals .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a huge loss .
over time , we focus on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get less , because we catch them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and to deal with them .
the question is why people accept this .
well , because you don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdote that the report of a captain &apos;s report that was observed in this area can &apos;t be used or fisheries scientists don &apos;t usually get used because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to rape on the hands of the astonishingly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they &apos;ve learned in abstract praise is confirmed . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine reserves , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
so the people who see a marine reserve , and who benefit from the insight that enables them to restore their normal values .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me he was driving on a highway in los angeles one day , and it all changed for him .
what about the people who can &apos;t do this because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think the art and the film might fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were they so touched by the visual world ?
because it &apos;s called something that &apos;s kind of lost .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , so he spins &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
in the &apos; 80s , in eastern germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a small fragment of a melody , which , as is often in inspiration , is agonizing for him , and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t touch them .
they also had to register a sheet of text from this typewriter .
the reason for that : the government could go back and track where a text came from .
they found an article with the wrong thought , they could find the creator of these thoughts .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do that , and how much that would constrain freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printer manufacturers and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow blob on every page , in a pattern that clearly makes the page trace on you and your printer .
that &apos;s what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , the citizens .
and this is one of the three main sources of online problems that exist today .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape record .
let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiev in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge bunch of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires , who made their money from attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
this is alfred gonzalez .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked by this song on forever .
stephen watts .
björn sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve acquired it by using trojans , for example , to steal money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
u.s. intelligence agency fror two months ago , the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and on this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free-foot , the locations are unknown .
and i would argue today that we &apos;re more likely to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most of the crimes will play online .
the second largest group of attacks we see today are not motivated by money .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , like , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main groups of people : criminals who are doing it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are doing it , but the last group are nations , governments who are running attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to sign in insolvenz , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week , in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the senior people of this group to ask if he could make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
and his answer was yes .
but instead of being panic , he just stopped .
now , how do people die as a result of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate requires , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors . but these services are particularly distributed in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign services like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can do it if you go into a foreign .
certificate hacking and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
how about the arab spring and the things that have happened in egypt , for example ?
he ended the whole thought process and did something completely new .
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 looted the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence agency , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , there was a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that had sold some programs to the egyptian government that they could -- in very large scales -- any communication of the egyptian citizens could catch .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments so they can do things against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state stream found , which was a trojan that was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re pretty sure going to tap your phone .
but today we are far beyond that .
he just looked in the sky and said , sorry , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ?
they tap into their internet connection .
they &apos;re using tools like the state stream to occupy their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me , because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
i look like i could just write a song ?
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right that we &apos;re abandoning is abandoned forever .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any government in the future , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came from a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measurements that fit together .
concrete blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in the position of building things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it was called the automatically compelling stone .
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it into a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s one key difference : the transistor was just for experts .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
if not , somebody else today , squawks .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started exploring this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlittlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re prefabricated to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them together wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is wires .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
you add a blue to a green one , and you can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer to an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wire or solve , littlebits allow them to program with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to speed up the blind or slow down , just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a used stone .
his whole work process has changed after that .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlittlebits to children , and you see playing with them .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in everyday life and they don &apos;t learn in school ?
like for example , a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlittlites to design schools .
so , for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti cannon .
it wasn &apos;t the work itself . it was often as dark as ever .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available to all of us .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design templates and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds it was lifted when he took the genius out of it , where he didn &apos;t make anything more angry and left him where he came from , in a way , and he realized it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be an actual , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , outrageous thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed a little bit the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of these grubs of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start thinking it &apos;s going to be a disaster . that &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
i started thinking , i should just start the project .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we , the younger brothers , are responsible for the destruction of the world .
but then i remembered tom talking in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took my view from the manuscript and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book isn &apos;t brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have that anymore .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross up here and maintain your share of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that -- you know what , then the devil does .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to give to protocols that i &apos;ve been here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people gathered to monthly with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- to the dawn .
these fates were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like time to stand still , and the dancer would sort of go through a pforte , and he would do nothing different than he ever did before -- 1,000 nights before . but everything would get together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed completely human .
he was illuminated from the inside and illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when this happened , people knew what it was . they called it his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing : allah , allah , allah , god , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquito conquered southern spain , they brought this practice , and the excuse changed over the centuries by the allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , olé , which you still hear in the fierce and flamenco dances .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical , which is , in fact , an allah , olé , allah , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
whenever we think about indigenous and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old scaffolding of the wild , which in its simplification is a rapid thought , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning , when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer carries a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging death with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never go up to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name again when he turns , but what will he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just think you &apos;re a loan -- from an unbelievable source for a readers of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so i started thinking , and so i think certainly in the last few months , working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly expected successor of my outcome .
so , infants are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by the nostalgia .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about this is : don &apos;t worry .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you have , for a moment , decides to show a stomach of wonder through your efforts , then an olé !
and if you don &apos;t , you dance anyway .
and , in spite of all this .
i believe that , and i feel like we should teach that .
michael olé ! in spite of you , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for that in the malaria harbor of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have formed a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist on itself , because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the lower 48 states , shrinking 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is labeled with red .
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
now , what does that mean ?
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because warming is the frozen reason for the arctic ocean , where there are large amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it comes up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate changing materials in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we cross that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane from the water itself .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another flat lake last winter with another .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how are we going to get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous warehouse heats greenland from the north .
this is an annual submersible .
it means that a small child from the andes that grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mindset , who determines his destiny , will become a completely different human being , and a different relationship with that resource or that place , as a little kid from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of stones that can be removed .
but the volume is far bigger than ever before .
this is the canger suaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level goes through land ice sheet , it goes to the sea here .
these rivers are rapidly accepting .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative iceprint .
and the west antarctica , which appeared over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
that &apos;s 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see the top new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half their drinking water from this melting water .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a pile of heritage is irrelevant .
in the indians , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
water levels have increased .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling was seen in the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austrosis around the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes around the world have been in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day into the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific precisely , from the american continent west and both of the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline of oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal-fired factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been wiped out in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
i grew up in the forests of british columbia , and i believed that these forests were there to be defeated .
and the coal industries and oil dustries spent a quarter billion dollars last calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
running around christmas , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal chlamb .
you saw it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow in all of our country .
this happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
that made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the locations of the hukuk and the curved celestial cord and the cannibalic spirits that live in the northerners of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
it &apos;s affordable and adorable , and workers remain in wages and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance of climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it up at the top of the line to spend a significant amount of money to get advertising on the way to the truth of coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and also smells good .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal-fired factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , which is remarkably clean coal technology that you see here , changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean coal-fired technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixed with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
it &apos;s a picture i took just last april in the northwest of the amazon .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a brave new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
feed america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
all these people teach us that there are other ways of existing , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting the earth .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
supply america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that make our world tick .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
feed america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we need to get a long way , and we need to go fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid , when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and access the hands , take the blocks and move them , they actually learned to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand most of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my expert , patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we used computers , which , instead of a mouse time , moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and order it as we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer and develop siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved with the hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , you &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks through the extension of your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop awareness of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the hostilities of our approach to them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining kinds of interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video relief , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it goes backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
so when i put them next to each other , it makes you interested .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimetic tryptamin .
if you &apos;re surrounded by invaders , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
an interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to recognize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve configured three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can throw back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we want to give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci sequence that i make with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and while you &apos;re trying to make words , they &apos;re tested on a dictionary .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get mixed up again , and you have a new type combination and new possibilities .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanoma , as you &apos;re sniffing this stuff , this substance that you &apos;re making from different species also contains methodydimethyltryptamin .
thank you .
these are some kids who came out on a trip to the media lab , and i was able to get them to try and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; educate words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are some more people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the bottom right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
this is an interactive trickfiltration .
to sniff this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , saturated by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
we wanted to develop a learning tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table , showing this character .
here he is leaving the sun .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
... invent his own story .
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with an open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed , and in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put those notes in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you put it in , just by holding a ton seed on a sequence sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filter .
you put it together with a particular tone , and then you tilt it to the site .
and then even super-arranged effects like speed and volume , which you apply to the entire sequence .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who could put the psychedelic branch in the discovery of the magic mushroom in mexico in the 30s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t consider these tryptamins as a hallucinogen , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to eat the leadership voice in two sequencing seats , and put them in a row , expand them and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and i &apos;m now connecting the filter to the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the speed in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to combine the filter with the bass for a little bit more expression .
i can reorder the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
and so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the front field , but i can improvise them ; i can extend them or shortcut them .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by tilting the volume siftable to the left .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken into orbital , because they are , of course , denatured by a human gut called monoamin oxidase .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that are better adapted to how our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to share with you a part of this new design world and some of the ways that we work on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of advertising with digital media , which brings information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversation with all of you !
yes , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
i &apos;ve got to get a little bit out of it , and that &apos;s biohacking , you know , dealing with modern molecular biology .
they can only be interacted with some other chemicals , or the mao denaturizes .
i study molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been studying biohacking for a couple of years now , and i started that , because i just wanted to know , and i wanted to do it myself , which i was learning theoretically in studying .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i kind of wanted to get closer to the matter , like this .
i think that molecular biology in general now , so generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on , synthetic biology and so on .
it &apos;s extremely important now , and much more important , much more important in the future .
there are such controversial things as all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s now craig venter in the u.s. , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are things that are totally in the world , which most people don &apos;t realize , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry , are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and the list can be continued endlessly .
and so , from the interest of this , this technology , i &apos;ve just moved on there .
now the fascinating thing is that the takarboline , which are contained in the liane , are mao inhibitors of exactly the kind that are necessary to potentially potential the tryptamins , so ask yourself .
so why are we hacking ?
most people know this from the software field , most people know this .
computers hack , and then the media will always be , yes , the hackers will break in somewhere and grab data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hackerscene , because that &apos;s not what she actually started to do , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that &apos;s an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a problem with access , which simplifies how things simplify , so any problem of throwing up a question , and how do you do it differently or how do you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene in electronics , and there &apos;s a whole tinkering scene that does all kinds of electronics circuits .
and just now , in the direction of biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , which is that biology is actually an information science , because the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not exactly the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , not just cyber .
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and you can also hack it , so i found that incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
that actually only took two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people all over the world .
these are a more artistic facility , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers , and working with scientists , trying to deal with these technologies and asking questions and working creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s. . it &apos;s actually more of a forum , where you &apos;re going to get together and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more enterprising , and they &apos;re also asked , yes , applied questions .
and based on these networks that have done the whole popular , there has been a scene that i want to briefly portray .
here in the image on the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility , where everyone can get there .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just deal with it , put them in a lab , and look at what can you do when these lab protocols are on .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
here on the lower left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural-fiber , which means they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for a long time , these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in such an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , also electronic tinkering , and they combine it in a pretty crude way .
a group of ankara , which i met a while ago , who had this is a group of students who wanted to convey more to the public what they were learning in college , and they were doing so on street little actions and trying to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum combined with an exhibition on the subject .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that actually brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and also , very specifically , to go to society and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know what do you want to do with it , do you have any interest in getting you into it ? &quot;
so , okay , now , to hack biology , you need some kind of material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
or , what you normally understand under a lab is , sort of , these are discarded machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
and our approach was to say , o.k , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary , because every coffee machine has actually increased technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really what it is .
and s o , with this premise , then , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cooker , a hot plate , and , yes , so supplies , and then grew bacteria , worked with it .
so anyone who &apos;s been gamed with a soup that they &apos;ve been on for too long has been doing .
i then tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought some second-hand equipment on ebay and did a little d.n.a analysis , tried a parenting test , so this / d.n.a fingerprinting , back home .
this shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but it should be .
down here in the picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s such a garage with all kinds of lab scaffolds that the university has been doing , a group in paris that &apos;s been working on what &apos;s been going on , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s also quite interesting things , and i want to cut a little bit of a project .
and this is biocurious , who &apos;s just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of a volkshochschool , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so this is actually from people who are doing this alone to large , major organizations that are doing this more formal in the institutionalized form .
but just always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
so , what does that mean ?
the first project that we did as an international group , when we sort of became aware of ourselves , okay , we &apos;re now here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then from the do-it-yourself org website of the founders , and he said o.k , we have to really meet now , also meet real , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and just after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and , you know , it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share with us ?
and what are our values and what are our targets , our foundation ?
and then we did this kind of code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , their wishes , and what moves them , then expressed them .
there , in my opinion , came a very good code .
and that &apos;s not what we have to do , but that &apos;s what , i think , has done pretty well , people are quite convinced of this .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it kind of didn &apos;t get there .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest that seems like a species for our eyes .
yes , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
a project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland myself was that we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
that is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam , basically .
it really works , it &apos;s done in academic setting , and then we thought , okay , well , maybe we can do that , then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , turned the lens off , and then you have a microscope that increases about four hundred times .
that &apos;s what you see down there .
and then we screwed a d.v.d brenner apart , and we pulled the burning out the laser , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and unfortunately , it didn &apos;t work , but we still learned a lot about it .
another project that came out of the french group in paris , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got this kind of brain wave measuring device , like e.e. or something , so he &apos;s been dealing with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what went on .
and then they ask them how to start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understood something about plants .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit down on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought they were , then different lights in the room went on .
it was a pretty fortunate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this paternity story , is the p.c.r , which is polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating , d.n.a , fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the scene of the crime , they go , they collect some hair samples , and then they do this , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to do this , that you buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at 4,000 euros like this .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbysection , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
and they &apos;ve got two builders up there , and they &apos;ve said , o.k , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve got open source , which is freely available hardware , electronics , assembled this device , and they &apos;re now the most low-cost providers of these devices in the world .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
i think that kind of six-dollar , or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a framework where it becomes much more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i had recently started building was a gene gun .
gene gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles in those air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onion and then made them light .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , but it was pretty cruise , so on a branch like that , put the thing on it , put electronics on it , and pressure on it , and that was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a sailor &apos;s pender and i attached that to it .
a sailor , if you make the full power with water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six thousand .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 varieties in full moon , and they sing to you in a different pitch .
and then you can accelerate the particles much enough , and then they go in the onion .
and the commercial device costs about 50 thousand euros upward , or something like that , sailor about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , it &apos;s also at the moment that the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can engage .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no chance of getting really good .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you did it yourself or saw it yourself .
and i think technology is becoming increasingly important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society as an informed citizen and talk to you , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
and that then , in the words of open knowledge and citizen science .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
so , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to engage with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who are at least officially involved on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a pretty remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know some of you who haven &apos;t agreed .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
part of it is with these hackerspaces , so these places are put together .
