you know , one of the great reasons in traveling , and one of the joys about ethnography research is to live with the people who can remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch it on the rain , taste it in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important for the sake of the earth as the biological web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem is that , even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult condition of the innate innate , look at them as orginically and colorful , they kind of confine them to the past , while the real world , meaning our world , is progressing .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousand-thinking just started .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-ninety-nine .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;ll stop spreading in a similar way , and then we &apos;ll be very well connected , so that there are more people involved in it as well .
and i would invite everybody to deal with it and try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity , and you put enough energy in it , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , in fact , in the 20th century , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or your technical innovations , but rather than an era in which we were against and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth , either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not change .
how do we actually work for people ?
this is a question that i &apos;m very moved as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability and all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how you encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media and create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that the interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , so thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , and that we can recreate them through interactive media right now .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-technology that you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i once wrote down four words , and i want to explain them briefly .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve learned in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a fundamentally natural relationship to virtuality .
this is basically unusual first .
all cultures have always been involved in the dance of new life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that , and i &apos;m going to prove to you by attempt that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since we &apos;ve been through these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very imagery , even though we &apos;re using a codified language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that the interactive media , by definition , is nonlinear , which includes the sensitivity of linearity , and what , of course , tells us is that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth point is that history for us is a place of information .
so what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove this to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that to me immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in mind , so they live in , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they &apos;re virtualizing reality and not computers at all .
fantastic , right ?
and that &apos;s where we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , where we can actually do that all the time .
and that wealth to virtualize the reality that people in the pre-industrial times needed to be bitter , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have any photology .
they had no mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory took place .
the sioux indians did not stop being less on sioux than they did , bow and arrow tasks when the americans stopped being americans when they were tasking horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge was just passed on .
and so it &apos;s so strong in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing is , if i can take a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s right .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that , at the time , human beings were at the same time media producers and medium themselves .
now , if you think about a piece further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;ll get to talk about in a minute .
crucial tools of information processing have been stories since any time .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shame , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were extracted to keep knowledge in stories .
and we &apos;re still very , very strong about stories today .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotcha , we &apos;re still interacting with a thousand thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories until the end of the year .
now we think our love of stories depends on the fact that , as a child , we were sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
it goes back much further into pre-industrial cultures .
but to me , in the field of interactive media , as a particularly impressive thing is that we &apos;ve anchored per se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of the nootka-indian .
and life lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what we call lead-based maps .
you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , in the australian people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-like maps , but they used songlines like that , or grape paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be mapped over songs .
where the language was subordinated by the subordinated rang .
so , you know , you &apos;re navigating about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that has also , of course , enabled you to defragment these songs and assemble differently and move to the left , right and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from the top of a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
and this is what happened to the genetic machine age .
we &apos;ve moved before in what we call the avian age .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what &apos;s happened is the book , and what &apos;s happened is that it &apos;s the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened , that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
the book and the picture .
so , unfortunately , we &apos;ve lost god a little bit of virtualization .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the picture , so not television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we now call mass media , is that these mass media have fossilized our memories and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but ethnic , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and many ways celebrated as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has influences on our thinking and our memory ?
and then the interconnected influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they are more and more prescribed over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang on our personal memories .
we &apos;re no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract language that is abstract .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures that are no longer in pictures , but we &apos;re coding our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the storytelling .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested with the story telling of information .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocal age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacious , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage , they bring us back these possibilities to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a moment .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural web as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all the thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
i used to travel with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear . 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , then a concept of what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which means our affinity to virtualization , to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is being addressed again .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically into no existing , virtual worlds , just after the model of the holodeck .
and other examples are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond to an intelligent person .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , annkathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so that you can pause with the two of them about the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how again , this archaic , cognitive model is addressed .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as a follower of the panel lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that any people in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with the console in their hand with any console .
anyway , they &apos;re doing it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s targeted for me to discover the outside world , which is that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that much better than that , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is , i &apos;m discovering a city by looking at where places were positively or negatively twittered .
that meant that he was instantly killed during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is a little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize this in my talk , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocabulary age , and that we &apos;ve been a little bit blurred in the machine age that can be activated with what we call the cyber age , and that in this way , we &apos;re returning to our roots in this way , about complex , technological , new products , not into the future , but actually coming back to us .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very excited to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking sack , and i &apos;m going to talk instead .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so i &apos;m also , of course , involved in the subject of curiosity , and how curiosity also changes the way we think , and why we might lose curiosity , and we have to rebump , and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re looking at alongside the actual existence as a form .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put in such &quot; n research semester . &quot;
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on the subject of natural user design interface .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the creators begin to engage in these natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction , etc . , etc .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and in front of the background , i was designing in the field of natural user interface , which is the next generation of the human computer in the relationship of the human computer with how our tools , or how the computer of the computer is changing from the computer sukzessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at when what &apos;s natural or intuitive .
maybe you have to look back at it .
why is this happening at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , in a very short way , we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society , or social form .
so from modern into computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society through language .
that means that you found yourself talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , you moved into the same cave or into other areas , you created cities or villages , and you created something like that , you know , tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very vivid .
he was smuggled into prison at the age of two to hide under her rockcipal , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no little child can talk about nature , but we learn it sucessively and proportionately , of course .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you start manifest the living language in the form of writing , which is what fluid and living is , i start , and i throw it in stone , and i manipulate it .
so , depending on how i pour and when i pour , it &apos;s , of course , a very different narrative than if there is a kind of life of itself .
but then sukzessive just moved this typeface as a primary medium , got in .
then the next generation came where we &apos;re actually living today primarily .
this is the kind of pressure and print script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was like a monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , the afterwards they want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is that we &apos;re going to have a shift in generation is just a few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal period right now , that we &apos;re going to participate in something like this .
of course , this completely confuses us , because on the one hand we see the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
the sister who did this brave act was put into an educational camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what &apos;s banging on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no more beef or other phenomena , which is , i just want to screw that up and i want to do that .
and these two worlds are just cracking up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , it rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic thinking patterns from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but on a global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not , if i think local , ecologically , and the neighbor thinks less ecological , the whole thing doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , in fact , from the local village , a global village has become , with the same principles , possible , intuitive , but also the total transparency .
as you knew back in the village , who &apos;s got what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is what &apos;s going on today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile ending devices on a global scale .
whether we know globally and aggregate faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped into a armband of maos , and for this exaggeration , she had to go to a heavy labor camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
now , in the background , i &apos;ve just been busy looking at this , what does it mean , what &apos;s natural for us , what is it that we may have lost , but instinctively , what is it for us , so what makes the difference ?
because often people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly , so anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s going to be better .
and of course , when is a little intuitive , and how do i , as a creator , influence it and design things like that , so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re very intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun , and they &apos;re easy to use .
you then work on , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i &apos;ll just look inside the inner self .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively , and how do our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibets can be intolerable , but the triggering mind of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look at detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitively handable , which means at the core .
and you can see that , in fact , a , our seven senses , most people think we only have five , now , it &apos;s already seven acknowledged , there &apos;s certainly the next , aged sense in the future , and as an extension of ourselves .
and looking at how we process information , how do we pick up information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is any difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but don &apos;t even know what it means to be detail .
but i have to understand , in the essence of being able to understand , when will information become information , when will know information , and from information , so that i know how to make things possible afterwards , intuitive , or , of course , handable .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this when i make things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper is , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice . do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonies , or a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll be thinking about where the right thing is .
and just taking an intuitive approach on the left , and then i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in it , which is the salt .
but also our perception of ourselves , how does it deceive us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
there &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , staggered , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream , and we forgot that there were no other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is already beginning to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and when i stop putting a halboval on it , we suddenly see not just one more unit , which is circle , circle , circle , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see more three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is called the design law , or the design psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the creators , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape-shifting legislation , design legislation of the continuity and so on .
often in the third one , forget again .
but this is an essential component , if you want to design things in a very intuitive way .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting in vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer .
and it &apos;s humiliating to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see from the back to the front .
that is , they projute a premise to the front that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just projulating our vision before we see it , and then we bring it back into our seheapparatus to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got this cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projieved what you want to see .
that &apos;s there , that &apos;s what comes back .
and then it goes forward , because the back doesn &apos;t look at the front , and it says , well , look again , and i &apos;m sure that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and what are going on for millisecond areas of these things .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment threw us to the cult of the seeds , which replaced the poetry of the shaman through the prose of the priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and overshooting -- only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who of you knows this picture .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what it is .
does anybody see something ?
a dalmaid , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmaid in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it anymore , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatinan is .
now you see the dalmatinan .
and on , now you always see him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve now actually spoiled them up to the point that they no longer recognize a pattern in them , but i &apos;ve conditioned them in a very short period of time , to see this dog in this forbidding picture .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know it , and now i &apos;m going to go forward to see the dalmatinan .
i see the dalmatinan .
so very , very exciting processes , which then happen in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s just here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times when i &apos;m busy doing somebody with three seconds .
now , this superficial story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he has to process that first as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant waiting times on the computer , for example , if i know this phenomenon .
what &apos;s going to take 50-milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time you fall in love .
that means , look , if you know that now , look at who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , as we see things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they &apos;ll answer 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , what we &apos;re paying attention to , and how we &apos;re sort of assuring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it that way .
of course , the creators are not just dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive processing , but primarily , of course , with the subject of the human object relationship .
so how does a human being deal with certain things like this ?
there &apos;s a product language , which is the practical functions , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does someone give for such a small box , where there &apos;s hardly anything in it , so horrendous sums of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
there we are , of course , at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re looking at as a form , of course .
back to my actual issue of natural user interface , and the subject , which , of course , is usability .
usability always means how can i get to a certain destination , or how can a user in a certain context be able to achieve an effective , efficient , satisfying target .
that &apos;s how it says the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are , people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance of all people and gardens being able to thrive a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible to use ?
can i use that directly , or need a manual , or i need a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable , it is .
that i only do it differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software that we just saw , then you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive or not usable , including i-pad in many areas or i-phone areas , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability has not only been a fundamental economic factor since apple , a fundamental success factor , if i want to make technological devices usable to people .
why ?
because , in general , through this new kind of usability , the natural user , we &apos;re on average , for example , five times the speed of our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softral , you need five hours and you have this new kind of natural software just an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
so that doesn &apos;t mean that you can go home probably four hours more , but your employer , or somebody , will come up with the way that you &apos;re busy doing it with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance for us to get certain things .
when we go back to the software area , the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one that has been working with nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonomes , which is that you have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so no longer zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
this made it much more user-friendly , but it &apos;s also , of course , much better .
the next generation of graphic user interface is already working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to form behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden i &apos;m looking at this as a little bit more important for success , just the usability becomes an application .
the canadian government has not always gone very well with the inuit , and during the 50 years of the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move into settlements .
and if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i have a voice , per language , per touch , a gesture , and no longer a mouse and cursor that has to control things , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
but that also brings me back to the point when do things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to put my little friend here and see , what does that mean from the perspective of cognitive sergonomy , when is really something intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always a little intuitive for us humans , when i have to think about it as little as possible .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , he wants to make it easy .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing models of action from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use it as a form .
that is , i can just transfer an intuitive human action model to software and make the software much more usable .
now , the question , of course , is , what is the most intuitive act scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve been telling you .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osity-model .
each of us uses that , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for guidance , select , inform , transfer .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already going to be in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it &apos;s working around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s going to be used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to seven thousand times each of us ever after activity , so in the sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s going to be punished less often than the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer it to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , a action principle .
and this is on a higher level of user friendship than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i &apos;m orienting as a supervision , selecting as a choice , informing in the trap , it comes up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction means i can throw it somewhere , or send someone , or shop , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we &apos;re capable of as an astonishingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was scared of his life took away all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten pies .
now , i &apos;m sort of interacting with the object , can zoom out again , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , and now i can filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the chocolate thing .
and all of a sudden , an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can touch things like the pieces , and they come up to me is much more natural than if you can access hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms like these things .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to close with giving you the clue , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and request .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you &apos;re a child , as a baby , is that you take care of what the divorce you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents allowed you to play more or less in the pottery , the more , in a way , your curiosity is , of course , tissue .
and curiosity is not learning .
now you have to know that the inuit are not afraid of the cold , they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m now talking about basically putting this whole environmental debate , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , into quality .
and there &apos;s a central point .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , you give them a plus-sized order of about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as an amorphous mollusk across the world &apos;s ocean .
the tracks of their sled were originally made of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
if we actually don &apos;t take a phosphorus and abandon it .
what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re looking at something that would actually be a sense of self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we &apos;ve only got phosphorus for two years , and now , through phosphorus mining , a lot more uranium is put into the environment than in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , fifty thousand tons of uranium have been distributed in our fields in germany .
and we take it all up .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blowing storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not protection .
that &apos;s the way i would say , shake your child , just beat it three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weights to the bathing , our whole earth will become a cemetery .
that &apos;s why you think about weights to weights .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he swallowed out , and he dropped his pants out of the sea , and he put them in his hand , and when the feces started to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a measer .
right now , we &apos;re building corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 kilograms per hectare of 30 tons per acre , or also recalculating the square meter .
that means we &apos;re losing in the ground about five thousand times more than re-educated .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem .
and it &apos;s all packaging or content .
for example , in the open stream , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s what they &apos;re all in the forecasting phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalien knife , and when it was frozen completely , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
let me tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement to the pigs on the solid ingredients .
people about the urine .
yeah .
so , men can &apos;t be pigs .
because it &apos;s lighting , isn &apos;t it ?
he contained the dog and improvised a dish , took the skeleton of the dog and improvised a sled , put on another dog , and swamped over the ice sheets with the fecalien knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you talk to the people to exist , if you say that &apos;s better , you &apos;re not there , they &apos;re going to get refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , when you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means that the ants weigh much more than us .
so you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work much tougher than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , they &apos;re about 30 billion people in energy use .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you can see how far away we were from what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we are at all on earth , you can see that , for example , open stream has a program , up to 20 , you want to be climate-neutral , right ?
they can only be climate-neutral if they don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this is a symbol , in many ways , of the resistance of the inuit and all the innate people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
fortunately , not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
you &apos;ve heard about this before , some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer as trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really have to go back in circles .
and with that , we &apos;re too many .
just about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit in april 1999 the full control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that is , we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there is no bio-building , no bioland , no natural progression system , and how they all mean , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
it &apos;s too many of us .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , it &apos;s the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was very , very strong , it happened with the ethnosphere -- only at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
right away , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a night victim is still called honey pots , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that is , the whole western civilizational story is that the city has only always taken over , but has never given back to the farmers .
so the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they &apos;re all controlling minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
they were brutally able to civilization over five thousand years , because they were always able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting them to stay till they pick up the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat them , not to the food theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
in fact , the nice thing is , if you do that , you make agriculture , you make biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , you can get a farmer about a thousand-and-a-half thousand dollars , and you can wait with it , chicken and pig , and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas is going down over nine percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve reviewing with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be as little as possible .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that is , that &apos;s where the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve built over a hundred and fifty years now , none of these facilities have ever been saboted .
you could just throw in a liter althylum , and then it would be ruined for years .
it &apos;s not happening .
that is , we don &apos;t have to control people to be as little as possible .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they &apos;re not removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that is , we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something about it , you write up , in germany , the best of all the enlightenments are in frfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in the open stream , but maybe they can help the frared a little bit .
because the frared facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
and we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been using now over three years in holland .
the dutch government has explained that they &apos;re going to be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil supply .
and the oil will be replaced by other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s to ask , what &apos;s the right thing .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve angry her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but very effective , yes ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
in the process .
this is not exactly correct in science , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , right ?
one thing that &apos;s beautiful about life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re ultimately trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage mud a little bit better , and put it down and lose all the materials for cycles in the combustion system , but first of all , how do you make the cycles ?
imagine mozart efficient .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
we think polemics -- we think polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that means everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental consciousness in the south .
no , throwing it away is exactly the right thing , right ?
in every place you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in the way we think of north .
there &apos;s every footprint disadvantaged .
156 nations send our television channel .
when they walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off the mosses , and the wind and the water is going to wash the soil away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how are you doing with your wife ?
then what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heart suffering , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so , don &apos;t save , cut , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , the people in the high bow are smashing out coke can out of the car .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun thing to do .
it &apos;s a form of refour-behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed a ice cream package , which is at room temperature , liquid .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to die , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the apocalyptic scenario in the field of biological diversity -- is barely what is known to us as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we do a series of trips to the ethnosphere , where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders , that they will be driven by the legged , and hopefully , one by one , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in a variety of ways that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s building all over the place .
and it contains seeds of rare plants , so that they &apos;re throwing away to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two circles .
not all to be composable , of course .
a tv set or a washing machine , and they &apos;re just using it , they &apos;re not using it .
just the things that vary , like shoe soles , like brake belts , like authors , they have to be that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , yes ?
very direct advertising , not for the puma per se company , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yes ?
so , when i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we figure out what &apos;s in there .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a reception exactly one year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment in which you can either walk locally or away with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian light and the rubber can go in biological circles , right ?
all of these are composable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and for the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help with them , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they &apos;re really staying there .
so , help me a little bit about this .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can seamlessly and continuously get , turn , rearrange in any way .
but it goes .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now , so that if you swallow , if you break , you can run in biological circles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , which is actually made to go back to the cycle .
again , in any store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the winds ?
if it &apos;s currently garbage .
there are these winds all over the place , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s on the front of the deponies , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside that they can go back to cellulosic base , they can plant hundreds of thousands of trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
just if you take these winds , you break them down , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the entire life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a field of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s sort of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
now , a lot of people are working with this , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra clue , cradle-to-cradle , where everybody can participate .
so no longer save , cut , avoid , reduce , not management of debt , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can constrain the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i am written that as an interpreter , as a translator , in english words , i understand .
interpreters are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you not only have to translate the word for word into a different language , but also understand the deeper sense of words and vocabulary in order to make it a meaningful translation , everybody who knows what to do with foreign languages .
already , translating german into english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s alien to layman what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have the written notes .
you think the composer in the notes wrote everything that he imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape , the fragrance of the flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is just to inherit , not to hear the whisper of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpreter has to translate these precise sounds of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to translate to you what i otherwise use to music , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it to english again , it would be equally important for me to translate the translation of translation .
so the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes , and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the point of letters is that you can only see the language .
so for the learning process , you need music language at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there are graduations , whether you &apos;re learning it for use , just passively understands , or you can also talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s linguistic .
the work of interpreting starts kind of like a theater director .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re just exploring for backgrounds of composition .
you collect information about the play in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you put comparisons .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in this .
you think in that time , for example , by looking at contemporary images , or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpreter , you also have a rich knowledge to play the composer you play more often , and it makes you easier and easier to think into it and feel it .
the composer becomes more and more of a friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece is becoming more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now , since the notes represent everything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but only a framework , i now turn to this framework to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator for that is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i &apos;m playing with explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what they might mean for him today .
every tone , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it jumps out of my personal now .
it has to be true for me in this and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i may have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been in advance to experience new experiences .
how to re-experience a happy new day , even though the same rituals of life , are standing up , breakfast , go to work , i &apos;m also doing the same piece over and over again in the new way .
i got older one day , the seasons change , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i see the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me and all of this is also affecting my experience with composition .
it &apos;s wonderful when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , fair conversation .
you bring in a new idea , and in the same way , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we haven &apos;t tried and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music in this way , and you , as the audience , have then experienced the way music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i will never play as much as i do at that moment .
i can &apos;t play as in 20 years today .
and so i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore i &apos;m going to have a lot more color in my palette of music , a lot more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to put some color pots out there , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jbarrigen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concertpianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was way too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , when i was 13 years old , and so i was on his classes at my school .
i was seventh when i went back to one of his classes and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballad was for me .
this is such a tragene part .
and in my adolescence , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was like , &quot; what ? &quot;
that has to be the difference of aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a cut .
he was over the age of six .
well , with seventh , you have dreams , but no significant memories .
i &apos;m playing the piece every few years today , and it has changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
an example of that from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis x x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the sea eroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they were at that moment on him .
his personal impressions of the seaweed .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is equivalent to that .
meanwhile , i &apos;m older than chopin at two and a half years old when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he lived only 30 years .
and it &apos;s important to look at the notes over and over again , even though i mean being able to memorize them .
in order to hold twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
most of all , when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
often the music class is that you only learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning how to read first before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something at the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
and when all the fingers are in time , and right as it is in the notes , they come out , and they sound like music .
when that happens , the student gets the next hard piece .
interpretation is barely spoken in the early education .
all right , so there &apos;s presto on the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and badge , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know .
but even if you put these attacks on , it &apos;s still just a little bit of technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very basic .
that is that to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend , won &apos;t do it by themselves .
that &apos;s like learning to talk .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to get it through another possibility , which is an instrument , to sound .
people who have never been singing have never felt directly with their own body , which is what it is like to form a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my finger .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the permanent report today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if you get bored .
no longer necessary to whistle or sing a song .
every single music is made when you &apos;re constantly summed with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask you , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
in both , it &apos;s not too late to start to see if they can &apos;t do it , or to learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal correctly .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because that &apos;s what you can train .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained to them that they &apos;re intractable .
and i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
have you ever got a second or third opinion , as you say today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
but then what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a prospective candidate .
but please don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas of creating these constraints for the available place on the screen .
i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell whether you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if it tastes me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t give up food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to give up classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and tell them whether they like it or not .
whether the music is too pristine to you or too sweet .
tell me what you feel .
over time , you get claims , and you want a little bit more spices out there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of them was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this is no longer a pop-ups and other nonsense -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art you never look at has no force to work .
the food that &apos;s been fed by a chef or a chef , has to be eaten and not just looked at or swapped recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults are actively making music , or at least actively hear music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play it in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different than before .
and that was the very first beginning of a single musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or even three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano in bachs as an instrument right now .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the soundscape of the modern piano .
i can now sound the sound that the stream has had on the modern wing , which is what a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had already become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything an orchestra rejected from the time as an unplayable .
so the composers are dependent on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so you can hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area as well .
and also , what you would think of today in the mind .
or what i pretend to do today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what neid is ?
have you ever been a tender ?
and how did that feel ?
shrimp .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v w piesel , and i &apos;m wrong , this feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s.a .
i say , ulf , what do you need to do with a big car ?
that actually loses half of its value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than i do .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i immediately think , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as neid just disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overhead on the top of nasa , the exhilarating image .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lie that you may have heard when people say no one wants to build a wall .
and then he picks up stones , so he &apos;s going to shut them down .
in a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easy to verify that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just fooling them , and he &apos;s not fooling himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to have a livelihood to keep a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , checking , or also falling .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
this is the time that an anecdote is talking about that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answers , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and if you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time it takes to learn something that artists can communicate very well with us .
because artists have a disruptive relationship to lying .
the artist shares something to you , and especially this lady , what she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something to you in a portrait like this , which you will only be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , and it could not look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and not only in art , even in the folk , in the mythology , it appears in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from that real background , the mirror can &apos;t lie , can &apos;t escape from that true outcome .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful place somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to understand under politically correctness to bring back and forth .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us on the deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
not only do we have in art , in folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies together .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischop of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and human ancestry .
that the man should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband , and she said , well , that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing .
the man is supposed to be from the monkey , or a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , we have to prevent people from getting knowledge .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge from something if it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that livelihood .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , derivative of the highest creatures , not of such a natural level , of something as an organism that still exists to be similar to a rock and other things , which is unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , the noah snavely , a university student at washington university , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t bear these things .
we need to prevent people from getting knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is resolving , and what the traces that it &apos;s leaving , that it &apos;s going to lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me her .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she likes it especially because he has a tendency for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m on the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft &apos;s research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification uses the word &quot; because , we should try to replace it through the word even though . &quot;
do that once , and then you experience the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the actual truth behind the outcome .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t really care about the fireman .
he &apos;s interested in firemaking .
but there are no clubs that we can look around , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the total of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he signed up .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t say to your teacher that you like to put the beaches somewhere and enjoy the fire coming up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re involved in eliminating the dangers that others are doing when they &apos;re fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence of the fact that in the inside of the bub , he already knew that he was actually related to the fire , but he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps right away without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
so then we just get these words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relationships are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and have this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
after what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one we actually know in the unconscious that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
so i want to show you two , maybe three examples .
the first example assumes what many of you know , and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is such a spiritual thing , says , leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not staggering , material nature .
and if you have people who are the most persuasive , that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think that it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework of them , not of matter , they &apos;re just out of meat and blood , something that &apos;s kind of a stone , to the earth that is built to the earth , inherent , decomprehensible , unimportant , yes dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and so from this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima is called the latin , the lufthal , the present .
and when that air cap poiss over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , right with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that is supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of you , you understand the logic that we &apos;re experiencing this happiness of being able to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three sentences , you still know from school .
so this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic to us .
the computer vision algorithms have collected these images together so that they have the real space in which these images that were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging processing , and these things were all in spatial relationship with each other .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie in a way that you can just get this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it has no soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i particularly highlighted it here .
a third sentence , which appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who has no soul , who &apos;s dead and can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and this is where you feel it .
here &apos;s the logic coming out in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say the canzler is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are some that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he has no soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately feels like you can do something out of it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assured .
because in fact , we have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic that just uses it , that two sentences are logically correct and adds a third one that looks like he has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we first worked on in summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , which is photosynth technology , and this is not so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
so in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the newspapers of the day .
now , you have to have another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy .
this has to do with the fact that we &apos;re going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have these soul .
this is such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same thing in the middle between two big hairs of the same hairs , it will hunt .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
this is how nature is presented .
the same large forces with counter-intentional signs resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so when it immediately makes the one haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing else .
automatically , he &apos;s walking to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that attracts you immediately , you also quickly have the feeling that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer says there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , which ended up in the computer with images of flickr , and just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get pictures of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on . each of these orange tiles represents a picture that was discovered as being heard as this model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singers is right , he has no freedom of willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day , which you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like who has no freedom of willingness can &apos;t be taken for his actions and his claims to responsibility , and therefore it &apos;s inadequate .
again , you have it again .
in fact , first of all , you have to prove that there is something like freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of the first is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything , and most of all , if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , if you meet a human being that you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr pictures , and they all relate to each other in this way .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically correct again .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately they become one for which , of course , there are predictors like this , you can &apos;t prove that .
and you already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy trying to make yourself realize that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he put them on a ripe where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in holding himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of the burden of evidence , they &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a way to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember them that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention it .
she &apos;s one of the performers here of this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea .
i have to say , you know , you got it , i was hard to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to introduce you .
but it &apos;s the sum , of course , of many ideas .
i probably belong , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine engineering in karlsruh , engineering college , which is now , i think , kit .
and then it hit me to berlin in the mid- &apos; 80s , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t give me a boarding .
you know , i never believed that eventually i was going to work at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
it was all kfa , the jewish one was called kfa .
it &apos;s called project carrier today .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but this kind of doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which is kind of a hundred watts out of the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola person that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
however , it wasn &apos;t like that in the ajustice years .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in crossing hill in the multiplicity , where you suspect the evil .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called the white tronics and made wind and solar energy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were the ones that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
when one said no , the vetopcattle , which was a completely crumbling thing , and for 10 years , i &apos;ve been struggling to see if i actually wasted my great engineering college , maybe really wasted to a devastating thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues were always talking to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to your child &apos;s window .
it &apos;s dealing with insanity .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get in this kind of phase , and it just showed up a picture where i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marks were , at the time , the basic wage , the longevity in the collective , of course , whether that was really the great thing .
and then i stopped it up to six and a half , and then we became a co-founder of the company solon , which then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with spin-off q-cells .
a huge success story , but we also have the problem again , of course , of course , of a growing company , and then we have two-thousand-six , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , which is , in my view , and it &apos;s equally crazy again , and that starts with people saying , what &apos;s the gossip , that &apos;s not going to be , we &apos;re talking about storing .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce to you now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : all in the process , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple , crazy story , where could you use a memory of a memory today ?
on this island , this is graciosa island on the azors .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living .
they now have a renewable energy percentage of fifteen percent .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have more ?
it just can &apos;t do that technologically .
when they build more wind power together , the system starts to fail .
i always tell the politicians , when they &apos;re in berlin adlershard , they &apos;re doing our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we &apos;d already have the same problems that people on this island have .
the question was simple , calculated that was two-thousandth of 2006 , and the first contacts started with the island , but just calculate .
how big a battery would actually have to be to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go back to a slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power are built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the equivalent of the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s going very fast .
many of them are covered by faces , and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s going on is being deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in this process , three of the diesels are always waiting , two are always waiting .
yes , this is what one sees down there is the burden .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind power plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only eat in small quantities here .
our goal was just to say , okay .
this is going to be back-up and the wind , and the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the bigger percentage .
somewhere here , there &apos;s a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy , so energy per year , not the power at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can take over the entire web , in a way .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
no one has done that in the world .
this is in a small way , so you can also serve your rasier in the car over a little interpersonal judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershard ?
that &apos;s it .
but if you want to combine multiple of these interchangeons , and they &apos;re supposed to build a web , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to 70s to ninety-nine percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work out of batteries .
that &apos;s certainly going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , that &apos;s going to be it .
this is actually a poster by notre dame that was recorded properly .
they have to go to a season storage , and winter summer , and not just tag night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , normal , stinky electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and they simulated wind and sun and the burden , and they came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that you get out of the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes a middle straw of about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 and a half cents .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulaners .
we can change from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
have negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social shepherds .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild one to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the exhibition again .
the brown is , in a sense , the conventional system , the green is our system .
the fact that our system also has a price increase is that we &apos;re going to do 20 percent more with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which meant the power utility company on the island , has meant we think that &apos;s great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical proportions of the island at scale one to three very precisely .
that is , we were looking for the first time to find the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from all -- from the entire collective memory of what , visually , looks like the earth -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes from asia , naturally , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it &apos;s been developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then it &apos;s then licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it has a megawatt performance , and it can do that for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , put into the hall , actually , the full dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the big battery in the back here , here &apos;s the whole reverse judge that we &apos;re simulating the net .
over here , we &apos;re simulating the whole transmission system , the kilometers physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a certain culture finds access to the material world .
all these photographs are interconnected , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , again , the diesel , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousandth of the nine is we &apos;ve finished the hall , until now , two-thousandth of the 12 , basically everything that was here between the single system of electronics , in software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the theme of battery and the subject , and everything in between .
you have to , of course , communicate to the battery , you have to be able to communicate on the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of this island is that you can basically take everything away from the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to be moving back and forth at the moment , energy , how it &apos;s going to go , on the island , we have , for example , 50-percent excess energy , so we &apos;re going to tire the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart-grid , a huge issue everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility in the island , ask rubber , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re renewable at 70-percent , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without memory .
you get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can go through &apos; n smart-grid , you can , by building the nets , yes , you should certainly do that , you &apos;ll never be able to listen to the fraction , but you &apos;ll never be able to completely dispense on stores .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made of loud rotating masses of large power plants , where the wave is all around europe .
we look in this web , we see the &apos; 50s hertz , and when it becomes ninety-nine comma nine hertz , we catch some valves , we go back in a little bit of merh steam , then we get back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , that &apos;s incredible amounts .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a long time .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the web stable .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , this rotating mass , you have to replace that with the power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds of this big battery out .
and then you can see what are the enormous speeds there .
and the message is now , we have to aim for these rotating masses , if we are to say , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to do it at all .
then we have to break down our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply called the power plant to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal power plants , because we don &apos;t do it otherwise , or gastorbines , because it &apos;s not possible .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by putting electrochemical stores on the web .
now , luckily , there &apos;s a lot of studies to do that .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use , grows , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and at that point , people always come and look at our subject on the subject , sort of , our inseltest .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take a bit of a far future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
don &apos;t go , is weakness , child toys , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is a role model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
very simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the beautiful thing is , i &apos;ve experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed with metadata that another person has entered .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , even to climb 10 megawatts of battery to the german net .
this will happen in the next april .
so from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autark system .
so far , in discussions , these insulaners , they &apos;re doing autark , they have their own little web , which has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is very simple , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossils or any uranium energy that are drilled out anywhere in the world and you &apos;re brought to them , you &apos;re an island .
then they only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where they live .
and that &apos;s a little bit of our vision of a sensible energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle , that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , the talk of premium cola , is that you can be a collective and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little bit crazy and have a vision .
when someone has struggled and labeled all these sacred and shared who they are , my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this space , into these metaverse that uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of overwhelming model of social experience with other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of los angeles times , went through the streets in the center of los angeles one day , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , raw , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves article on it later became a book that was filmed again with robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx were a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied at the juilliard conservatory and whose promising career was tragically ended early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend to all of you to read steves &apos; book , or to look at the movie , so you can understand not only the wonderful interconnectedness that has arisen between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it ended up being the instrument , if that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine me .
he was talking in a very hotter and social sound about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct all of this is the immense rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that were not only preserved by overwhelmingly or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email that said nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel had a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days in the streets of skid row , and he &apos;s always exposed to this horror and torture of his own mind .
and in that same kind of rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this irre flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not mine , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his conditions , and that i could destroy his relationship with the violin if i started talking about clay conductors and arpeggios and other exciting forms of the didactic pedagogy .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was like he was under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some clips of violin concerts , and then asked me to end up playing them : mendelsson , tschaikovski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , starting from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa-pecca salons .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge about music , but he also connected a tight personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i otherwise only know from my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , from this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a loving , educated , trained , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music is changing us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so it escapes its agonizing states .
i understand them right ? their software enables , at a certain point , in the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically being connected together ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that is deep inside of all of us , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression is reaching all of us , and moving , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the relieving power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i will keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything else but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , sustainable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do a session about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want it to create hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what became this unimaginable problem for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
ninety-five percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the smiling , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so it &apos;s going to be a part of our future , or a bad aquaculture , a fishery .
many arguments against it . fishing plants are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a 15 to one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wildfish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and she does this because of the content in the pictures .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the ocean that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of ourselves .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put up .
and that night i lay in bed , and i thought , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , i called don .
i said , &quot; don , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask questions .
now , i was telephone with a few people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you do a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what the image is .
let &apos;s also call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
now , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dry and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your feed is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
i loved this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous enjoyer and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually loved this fish , because , you know , i swear to god , who checked fish after this conversation for chicken .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way you , the better you learn your fish , you love the fish the more .
i first eaten it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost sharp white color .
then the scope of the semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it was cooked ?
i can &apos;t do it , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . he &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevated in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . thank you very much .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what were essentially wetlands .
they did that by degrading the land .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t do it , they couldn &apos;t do it economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental consciousness bought the land .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of the water .
thank you very much .
they literally flipped the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flooded the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- bark , sea , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is flood channels and these dense , lush march .
i was there not a long time ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? we were there , and we fought through the wetlands , and i &apos;m cheating and sweating , and we have mud up to my knees , and miguel is holding a biology lecture in quiet .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , as i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try and make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare trajectory .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more talking about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the front night .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed out the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
now , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-estepping .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are no longer whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
later on , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was like a film director demanded a shift in stage .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of paintings of flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far the eye .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you send your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
official faith of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish to the birds .
now , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s now become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves all over europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he was shaking his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensive , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eat the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the collective well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed your animals and a farm that measures your success in the health of your predators .
a fish lift , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the ground nature is better for the nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 miles .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line in the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly back 240 miles in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an unprecedented condition for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do that because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it crushed .
it &apos;s this bold , coined taste .
i almost never cook it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing things that maximize our common good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something hits the body .
it &apos;s evolved in the course of evolution to seek out inequalities . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any disputes . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success at the success of its predators .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any unpurity , it drives enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes from the guadalquivir river .
it &apos;s a river that takes all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and it leaves the water cleaner than it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only a farm that feeds its animals , not only a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it declines in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because this love story , as romantic as it is , is also an envelope .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , someone stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey people , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not the total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it has determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain to herbivores , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chickens to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry has simply asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the legacy . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a business in wrapping , a business that quickly ecological capital that enables that production to happen .
this is not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is now threatened , not because of the declining ingredients , but because of the decreasing resources .
not through the latest mice rescue and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is so deep in our water supply , i think , that there would be no way to question it .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in it , and it has never produced anything really good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
operations that are not worlds for themselves , operations that are restoring instead of using up , operations that are growing extensively , instead of just intense , farmers who are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , they &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to get you to one thing today , it &apos;s that the total amount of data that we consume is greater than the sum of their parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information to create patterns , and we see trends that wouldn &apos;t be visible otherwise .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram arranged by age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a particular cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately i see a different pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle area here , people are most active and they &apos;re the most ubiquitous over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further , and then rearrange the data , and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , when we go on and we sort for age , we say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and if you look at the research , this is particularly true in men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
what we have here is the cover of every single &quot; sports illustrated , &quot; which has ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
they can dive into a certain year .
they &apos;re no longer taught young children . that means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
you can jump directly to a particular copy .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m going to click here , and i &apos;m going to click on all the expenditure that lance armstrong talks about .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at all the bike ride ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to go back to the point of view .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , targeted , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look for or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with something a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediasis and we &apos;ve reduced it to a small summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediacatories that are most covering time magazines , people of the year .
this is really important , because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediasis .
that &apos;s just to recognize when you step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see everybody together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamicoessions that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some of them , even less , come from the economy , here &apos;s my boss , and one comes from the music sector .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can now jump and take a look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time , as if it &apos;s really a web , not just from page to page , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;ll just show you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump right to a specific section .
so this is important , because just by looking at websites in this way , you can look at the entire internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my trajectory in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been giving up to this .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve been looking at today .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory , maybe , for my search past , here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here to bing , &apos; or live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go in and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the total picture bigger than the sum of the data .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the flow of information .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of always going from one to the other , we can start to be able to go from many things , and by seeing patterns that would have remained otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then this kind of data trap , maybe a new source of meaningful information becomes .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- speakers , cd players , a tape player , radio , amplification , and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , then maybe we can even draw wisdom from it .
that &apos;s what i stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a beloved portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i was driving the bus to school , one hour per day .
and my nose was always stuck in a book , a science fiction book that led my thoughts to other worlds , and in a narrative , my deep sitting inside of me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also showed that whenever i was not in school , i was walking through the forests and gathering &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and beetles and pond water , i would bring it home and look under the microscope .
i was really excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to be reflected in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and studied the deep sea .
we can put together 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor this over-saturation with computer-generated movies nor the whole media language , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response was to draw and paint by aliens , alien worlds , robots , spaceships and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was constantly caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook .
creativity had to be kind of out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
certainly , i would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , and it seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and as exotic as what i had always imagined when i read these books .
so i decided , when i was 15 , to get diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t get discouraged by that .
i buffalo , until he finally found out a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my submersible in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that are in the meantime , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat oceans , is as rich as we can really imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know any boundaries , as opposed to our own , noisy human imagination .
to this day , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dive .
and my love for the ocean lasts , with the same intensity as ever .
so when i was an adult , i was looking for a job , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to unite my inner urge to tell stories with my need to create images .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories . that was the fit together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted as long as it came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we went back to computer-generated animation , cg .
what came out of that was the first computer-generated software surfing figure ever to see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in money , and in fact , he was playing his production costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , we know that advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found that incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be really involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy there , and the success depended on how this effect would come about .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve already played a little bit more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature designer at the time , and it was called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to transcend the phase of analogous processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
and then we did , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in creature- and &apos; 90s , we actually started the company -- we started it too slowly .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was to push the bar in terms of visual effects and computer-generated effects in all new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made using cg , and the main figures should be all cg , and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole pretty much pushed back , and the people in my company told me that we were not yet able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other movie about the big ship that &apos;s going on .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love movie of epic , a passionate movie .
but in secret , i really wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by the silence of being one of the last of your people who speaks your language , not having a way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
one episode of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the movie .
that &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketer for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but that goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
and we actually created a reality , six months later , where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , this was not a movie , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and shrimp and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much this deep sea divergence was like a space mission .
well , they were also highly technical , and they needed extensive planning .
you get into this capsule , and then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there is no hope for rescue , if you can &apos;t get it back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like i &apos;m in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was literally obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that had to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and for which science at the time when we saw it , had never found a word .
so that really flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a little bit of an unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice for a while , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher . &quot;
and then we started , we dived to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we returned to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped up a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you had no means to do it , so we developed the technology we needed .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are quite similar to these brakes here , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déj. vu i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner at a time , i &apos;ve always known what would show up in the light cone of the vehicle , because i had run over the movie set for months when we turned the movie .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use these robotic avatars , and so your own consciousness into the vehicle , into this different form of existence .
it was really immensely profound .
and maybe a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all sorts of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we really started to appreciate what we had seen down there , for example , these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite is the one in the middle -- mp3 playful , ween-haired trimmer and crème brème fackel .
they live with the help of chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , like we do .
and so you can see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was , again , the science fiction effect of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in nasa &apos;s expertise advice and plan the right space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the mission of biomedical protocol , and they take it all around , and then they fly to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems along .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of it , it was that i took space scientists with us into the deep sea .
i took them with me , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , take samples and test instruments and so on .
now , we did documentary films , but actually , science , in particular , did space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation of reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you think a director has to be able to lead , a leader is like a shipping captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much of leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of that ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . we &apos;re not going to be a trace .
everybody thinks i &apos;d run away from &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar , &quot; and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no glory , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
and what it does is it gets people to walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that &apos;s there . you do it for the discovery , and because of the strange connection that comes out when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all this with just 10 to 12 people who have been working for years and years , and sometimes we were in the lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you can see that the most important thing is the awe that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a job that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you come back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you work on sea , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other . that &apos;s like police officers or soldiers who have done something together , and they know that they can never explain it .
there is a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next movie &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you deserve yourself in the opposite respect of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i was back there with a little team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that hasn &apos;t existed before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for four and a half years .
by doing this , my way of making films changed completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d done these ocean creatures really well and transported them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a fundamental way of doing my job , the actual process that changed in the outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons have we learned ?
i think the first place is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human feature .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the awe of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is &quot; no . &quot;
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a piece of advice to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t constrain yourself .
get that for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself . take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploring , it has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a trust proposition .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded was ever committed without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with , and failure is an alternative , fear , but it &apos;s not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a surprise , because my full-time job at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years ; we &apos;re going to grow too much or too little rains ; things are going to change the way it can &apos;t stop their fragile environment .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , a climate change is going to be terrible for you .
moreover , the energy cycle is very important to you .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , for reducing poverty , energy would be far more effective .
now , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last syllabuses of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we meet a new barrier , and that barrier depends on co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the exhausted co2 that leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature elevation has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and so whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting in temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguties , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t it enough half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different than saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to be under a three-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath it .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down , down to zero .
now , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american , about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to create changes that will reduce to zero .
it &apos;s been up constant .
only different economic changes have changed at all , and we need to go from rapid increases to reducing , and to zero reduction .
this equation has four factors . a little bit multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get to zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that is emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get it to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion , moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we &apos;re seeing a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that &apos;s all , the food that we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services accessible to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to eliminate and use less , but on average , that number will increase every year , and therefore more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there any light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
now , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other types of autotypes , through new methods in the building , there are many services , and the energy supply of some of the individual services is being reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizer manufacturing , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; 05 : 58,000 or air transport or air transport , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three reduction , or maybe by a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve now gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of if you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emits co2 , except today &apos;s renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to a particular date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , i noticed this .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my contribution to the environment this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;ve been told that they don &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
now , there are all sorts of play solutions like this , but they don &apos;t bring much .
we need solutions , either one or two , to have a unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions in which people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if you do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all of those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after the burn of the chimneys , float under pressure , and then laugh somewhere and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but get it to 100 percent of the time , and get it very difficult to get an agreement on the storage of co2 is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the warehouse question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that is literally billions and billions of times bigger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there are a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solved , and that &apos;s why you should work on it .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies create dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about lots of square kilometers , thousands of times more land than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and so does the wind not keep blowing .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big challenges in the price here , and there are challenges in transmission , and if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where it comes from .
and there &apos;s the warehouse problem .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all sorts of batteries that are made : the ones that are made for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these underbroken sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to rely on it by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get to the destination ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
in many , they &apos;ll say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many who are already involved in the ted group .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , who has great solar technology .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i finance a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; would the world not be a better place if we all talk one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonesian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear domain ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , people had been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never simulate any reason whether it was going to work , but since there was modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes ! with the right kind of material approach , it looks like it &apos;s going to work .
and because you burn this 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head off , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; walking wave of reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve taken the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the used uranium .
that drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy to film , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
now , let &apos;s go to the destination that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate .
many talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean .
so , in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use the zero emissions technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed world , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s really important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should be the two elements .
we should use the efficiency efforts to get reductions down , and the less we emitt , the less the co2 sum will be , and the temperature will be .
but actually , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even less important , as the others , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we need to follow these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in piloting projects and regulation changes .
there are many great books on this topic .
the al gore book , &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed in a wide way , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through energy , without co2 , i would take that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term thinking is going to be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice as to show this slide .
so what do we need to do ?
what kind of measures do i appeal to ?
we need to use ourselves for more research .
when countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
they should discuss this innovation strategy , and they would be shocked by the ridiculous money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market rice , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are being done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you !
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists that we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 1000s million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find more billions , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first thing is done , when it &apos;s done , as i promised , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear , as we know it .
in order to understand that , this means building deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . today you have to refill the reactor all the time , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and get things in -- or out . it &apos;s not good .
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it in for 60 years -- think of a column -- that you bury without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s finished .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that exists already in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . this is our starting fuel .
so what these reactors were a problem is what we put in our filling , and it dramatically reduces the garbage volume during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the greatest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet set up on a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting revelation rules for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; -- there &apos;s a big interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how it fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variation of one thing that &apos;s been done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor and some countries have built this , so everyone who has put a fast reactor on it is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , timeline and probability of really creating something like this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then use 20 years .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything is going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , that could be easy to do .
and luckily , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds , which , if their approaches work , can provide the promotion for their pilots for it .
and it would be best if it could do multiple , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
that would have been it without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then as quickly as they could , they got children as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type , which seems a little bit difficult , but they might say that about us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mainly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re just in front of a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something like that .
there &apos;s a line of research called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to run together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did afterwards .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know that you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climakeptics : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative impacts that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , there &apos;s a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems of investing in something that you only have later -- and you get the investment not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worry .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the co2 is removing , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it emitting co2 , i almost wish it would do that , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the björn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other targets suffer , the poverty reduction , the fight of malaria , and so on , that it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that &apos;s not that dramatic .
other things shouldn &apos;t suffer from that .
you get to large sums of money , and this is where reasonable people can disagree if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a cost-breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the curve of learning , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris you get is a very high energy cycle , then the rich ones can only keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach them wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks .
now , his new magic is , &quot; why is the research not going to be discussed anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skepticist camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i speak for almost all the people here , when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter of tape , about a meter of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work together very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually , most people start to orient themselves to the task .
you &apos;re talking about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch , and they put spaghetti out .
they invest a lot of their time in building together , growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow , and you put it in the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but then what happens , almost always , is that the &quot; ta-da &quot; becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy with other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i get married or not ? should i get married now ?
there are a number of people who have a lot more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , they &apos;re producing really drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have much more &quot; ta-da , &quot; and under the best , freshman graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but they also produce the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does that come ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids are investing in being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students have been trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i get married later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realize it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what &apos;s different about kindergarten children is that they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have the ability to repair biased prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every trial , the kids get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are doing a little bit more , but not a lot , child gardens are better than adults .
who is the most successful one ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and secure geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that happen ?
because they have special skills of the process companion .
you run the process , you understand it .
and that team that is regulating and looking at the work is going to significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m telling you and not getting a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
so i was trying to do something exciting .
i thought , well , let &apos;s bring smallpox use in the same way .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have put the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this practice with the same students .
what do you think happened now ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
this is how the same , bad team , one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the slightest time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed as carl pointed out , with technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic position , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who care about it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of how people are optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world records .
and the fundamental lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a committing sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a small prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , where the wirelesslan works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay in here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve asked my friends this question a lot lately , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then suddenly you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you , because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and i don &apos;t want it because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on the planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that we &apos;ve ever had on the planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re building : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heel .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have in terms of making decisions , over and over again , whether we should work or not .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death rate .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world was 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;ve disappeared .
we &apos;ve forced them . puff .
in the rich world , diseases that have threatened millions of us only one generation ago barely .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hip , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphanta , roman , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method is to try things out , see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s all the good news , because there are some other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all our achievements , one billion people in the world are going to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to really devastate this world .
drinking water , urable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re disappearing soon , and if we don &apos;t get out of this chaos , we &apos;re going to disappear .
and even though they &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilating a football game , we &apos;re also asking ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the country that they live on .
i think we can power this world with energy that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really think that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never used scientific progress as much as we have , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been struggling with progress , where we &apos;ve been struggling with these things more powerful , more fronts than now .
people wrap up in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will release it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but do you know what you &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; dancing , don &apos;t have them .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , to resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically modified food .
the same thing , only bigger .
people played crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were in a certain way to move around in a random way , a translation in nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be very different from your child &apos;s football game .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept doing it .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we rich , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles made me worry , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally , i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics , who made me crazy , were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that brought me together so much ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same ratio to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we talk about it twenty .
we talk about it ironically , with little leadership signs about , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be like that .
you can just call a couple of names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask the evidence , ask the evidence .
take nothing but granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get evidence , you have to take that evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , like i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully never again will see it .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story associated with the autism epidemic with the maser , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very scary .
there were a lot of studies done to see if this was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccines are falling for masers .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
now , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has masers ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 an hour .
but because that hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and it &apos;s very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i &apos;d like to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere to try and make you understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , are these good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , except for paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say anything with no armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them away , you go back to the diseases , the terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we have now masses in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , kids will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masers .
what about parenting ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitary of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little bit too sharp . &quot;
nobody has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe this morning , somebody in lagos got on an airplane and is flying to los angeles , right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these amazing ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that either , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps them jump .
i know you did that because half the americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t make any difference how often we find out that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they darken their urine . they almost never do more .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i agree with them completely .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
now , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that instead of liberating paralysis , it &apos;s paralyzed .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazing cold and soul to us , who can afford it .
so we run away from it , and where do we go ?
we run into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what are you doing ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , it &apos;s very hard for people to decide .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health , who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any cancerous jellyfish who wants to treat his patients with caffs .
if you &apos;re on this path , where belief and magic are replacing evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone belly and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is placed worse than any other disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have any consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponents of genetically modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study on volunteer retirement .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
all we eat , every rice , every branch of petersila , every rose coat , was changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarines in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more accurate . and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people expand their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the gigantic fund society of about a million collaborators and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we &apos;re rejecting genetically modified food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is , too many chemicals , pesticides , hormonoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , the participation took off by two percent .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid of a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they only offer five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that eats half a billion people .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this in there .
and then people could eat the food , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be beautiful . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say is , why do we fight that ?
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
now there are some of us who , in a sense , forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide what to vote for , that they &apos;re going to push it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be the highest time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do it the way we do it , we &apos;re going to be guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description for what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s our not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we go into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know we can do it , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , &quot; a deception that becomes real if somebody believes in it . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills , in some studies , have shown a measurable effect , the placebo effect , and it &apos;s just because the person thinks what happens to them is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient only believes hard enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that not only does that mean that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss large investments in their employers .
a deception becomes something real because someone perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a basic , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been at least in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i myself learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study ; my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to hold the knife like this in my fault .
i push my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to raise their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to press my wrist right here .
so you can see that there &apos;s nothing moving at any time , and as long as i press here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife will be held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually sitting so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes to my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in the room know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say i &apos;m closing my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because there is the actual secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger here , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who had no childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here , because the mind and the way it processes information , doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is all about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , through my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it will be hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing to me .
because it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirine tablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color these blue and shape a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more measurably effective .
and that , although none of them are any pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s forever , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that this isn &apos;t all there is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
a colored capsule , which is at the end of a yellow and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . sorry .
but the key thing is , ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in the head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical feature , and it &apos;s just our belief that has a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
well , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle if it &apos;s supposed to go to the point .
this is an eight-inch hull . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less happy with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to decide between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and push it through , until it recovers on the other side .
if you get lousy -- if you fall easily in the ear -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has almost become powerful .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part back here .
you can see it in a minute , but you can see away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little einstein .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid , and it &apos;s going through itself , just to give us a couple of minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this kid of barasana in the northwest amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they were mythologically coming up the milky river from the east in the belly of holy snakes .
one of them is induced by the great selection of different salatdressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what has happened is this imagery leads you to regret the decision , and this regret is negative to the satisfaction that you &apos;ve made of your decision , even if it was a good decision .
people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my meat , and i can turn that around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the ones who see this later on on on in video , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , you see , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take out the needle now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is not to regret at all , that &apos;s disappointing to the choices that you make .
but i think in this framework here and with the intent to make something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage like this .
we &apos;re going to see ourselves a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they &apos;ve spent about 40 , and there &apos;s been a lot more .
there &apos;s a huge wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think about happiness clearly .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive traps .
secondly , what economists call oppertunity costs .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these traps is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could narrow it down to , but by and large , it &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second case is a transformation of experience and memory : basically being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling the story of how much we evaluate things , depending on what we compare it to .
and then he added in , really quite emotionally , that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he had stayed with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two types of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past again , but has basically the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor presents -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt now when i look at you ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memorable self , and the memory self is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are lots of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s just to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the memorable self , and the two of them are part of the pervasive notion of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts right away .
not only do we tell stories when we get to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experience is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful today , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more from both ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain the patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut mirrors were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is this clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse is where the pain was at the end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than b in the memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the memory self .
from the perspective of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in without shaking too much of it .
that will lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done it , that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve made the case that the memory itself of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s some on the hamptons .
what is a story ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is , is the out-of-the-box , significant moments and ending .
ends are very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
now , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological presence is true for about three seconds . which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , they somehow get the impression that they should count , that what has happened during these moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we consume while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory itself for us .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the deal with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the weekly vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory itself .
for the memory itself , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories that are added .
they haven &apos;t changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory self from a living self . time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than to remember and tell stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two reflections in two different surgeons and decides what to vote for , then the one who chooses the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in this choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as a foreseen memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory itself , and you can think of yourself as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means that we make vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors of blue and green , because the sky scene is equal to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we made a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think relatively often in relation to how often i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably been eating from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
now , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of it , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in terms of the weight that we give experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are annihilated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you won &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose another vacation , there is a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think in the sense of time , you get an answer , and if you think about it in the sense of memories , you could get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we have with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per person .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory self , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or enjoying the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different terms .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mask the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being who have been messing up the exploration of happiness for a long time in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a worldwide survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with your life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you very much about how happy they live and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he was tracking the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone and you were to tell them , oh , your father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about their size ?
now , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has put their life as eight on a scale of 10 , you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their living self .
so correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of the happiness self .
we know money is very important , targets are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like , to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs down the happiness that we get from our choice , even if what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement of well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you won &apos;t get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier when they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is , when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , let &apos;s say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could go to california at the end .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who move to california in the hope of getting happier .
now , your living self is not going to get happier .
and the more options there are for choice , the more attractive features of this choice are considered to be in the oppertunity cost .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we telephone a couple of weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something you can let us participate in , because you have a few minutes left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings varied with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they &apos;re getting increasingly unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw such flat lines .
what happens is , obviously , that money doesn &apos;t get you an experience happiness , but that lack of money is certainly getting you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , of memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the happier you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american aspiration , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this fund seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians would generally take a fund like the country seriously and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
the recognition is going to be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and it &apos;s happening in other countries .
people are recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it will take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think of the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe also doing things slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that will be , i think , in the next decade or two , part of the national statistics .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
now we spend three billion hours a week playing online .
but one of the things that he does is he always decides who you choose to do one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have urgently to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on the planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that it took time for 21 billion hours a week to play .
this may seem a little bit abundant , so i repeat it so that if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i mean it &apos;s really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical for the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage proposal called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have many attractive properties , and it will do what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might get some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little scared , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you also play , you see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows are surprising .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . great . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so ubiquitous that they didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of something like this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world when we tackle the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are facing all the viennesses on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? ok .
that &apos;s me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we &apos;re better at play in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good at play in reality .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we &apos;re getting more in games . i mean well in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are turning into our best version , at any given time and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which offers the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you with a global mission , instantly .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
you never get a job that you can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their capabilities , so they have to work , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and turn around . there &apos;s always a big deal to do .
and there are tons of employees .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that that simple in real life , that feeling that when you have a fingertip , there are a lot of employees ready .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we &apos;re there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only a kind of jeans , and they bought them , and they were poorly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they were wearing them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve probably heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one and plus-one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem with cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to be on the edge of an epic victory that we prefer to spend all our time in these games .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound miserable .
but to see in the context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go up .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have a couple of jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend with play right now , it just makes sense when you think about the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , because it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we &apos;re capable of as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person from today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10.080 hours is the exact total time they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the end of high school -- if you &apos;re never missing .
so here we have a complete parallel , where young people are learning exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they &apos;re learning in school .
and some of you may have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; surplus &quot; .
and the seller said , &quot; do you want snake , lightweight or long ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying 10,000 hours with the tedious study of any subject to the 21st year , we will become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting as good at doing whatever the most important people in the world are doing .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players masterically good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have basically never had any human potential before .
so many people now have in the world that spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master-players , 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to make buttons or close-up ? stone or acid washed ?
the game industry develops consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , rather than the broadband internet , so players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games are going to mastery us .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , imagine this as extreme self-motivating .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a greened hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of dense social networks .
do you want to save jeans ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we like more people after we &apos;ve played with them , even when they &apos;ve defeated us badly .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with somebody .
we trust that somebody will spend time with us , that the rules will be held , that we have the same goal , and we will stay with the end of the game .
so playing together enables you to grow bonds , trust and with each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , as a part-time job .
the reason is , when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that we work optimally as human beings when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always willing to work hard if they get the right task .
do you want to cut a long way down , cookie , blah blah , blah , blah , blah ... &quot; and so on .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe of the planet &apos;s terrifying missions .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve compiled more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than about any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as individuals , they can change the world .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischehen , six or seven languages are spoken , however , is that you never hear somebody who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the kind that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness not less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not as i do -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says , this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can build stronger social ties in games than in real life . they get more feedback and reward in games than they do in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to do all these damn jeans , and he left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best appropriate jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s completely logical at the moment that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optical situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes made out of sheep skulls . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , there was sheep skull .
and these were , in a sense , the first human developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , more cubic games , in the kingdom of lydia during a famine .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
there was such a famine , supposedly , that the king of lydia decided to make a crazy idea .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed on a national strategy , and on a day you would eat , and the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the play of the cube , because games are so fascinating and surround us with satisfying , happy productivity , that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then , the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , for 18 years , they survived this famine by eating and playing the next day .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re putting in games today .
we put in games to get away from the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get rid of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to put a final game of dignity .
they divided the kingdom into two seats .
they played a game of sauce , and the victims were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went looking for a new home , and they left as many people as there was food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to the conclusion that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine might explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people through play by flipping into games for 18 years , and then having this insurgency and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can do that too .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion hours of play a week .
we should reconcile that half of us spend an hour a day playing until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve been doing in the last few years at the institute for the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans go up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empower people to implement this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and get people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in a way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing it for the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a changing experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure to go to .
find out how you would survive . most of our players have kept the habits in play .
so for the next global game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game superstruct at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the computation of a supercomputer that people have only 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality , &quot; of course , sensitivity .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we almost designed a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there is the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strands , and only together can they save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody is in the dream team , and our job is to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you close the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social transformation , &quot; in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book . we have &quot; level up &quot; for local understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to finish now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social networks , urgency optimism and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing meaningful games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create every imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world changing games start !
and so i compared what i got to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing a article for italian wired .
i was always ready to write my synonymous dictionary , but i was done with the process of texting , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life , which is really what the word &quot; disabled . &quot;
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; crushed , helpless , useless , destroyed , deceased , mutilated , wounded , wounded , layered , disconnected , served , balanced , chosen , impotent , tired , paralyzed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , age weak , pulled out of traffic , repaired , broken , counted , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh for the first time , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; aligned , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t go on talking , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting myself after this flooding word and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a frantic old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s , when i was just beginning in elementary school , and i started building my self-image outside of my family sphere and forming , in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god , i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
adding possibilities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities are going to be .
if i took this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i am celebrated for the opportunities and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself up the 2009 online copy , and i expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this contract .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under &quot; near antonyms &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of the escape has a huge force , because what you say out loud can manifest itself .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to call a human being mindless as a child , it could be enough to constrain them and to impose ideas to them .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors to you ?
a man who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
he &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo , a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , was not able to speak correctly to most americans , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , infinitely often , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i blew them up . i hated them .
and imagine , in fact , i &apos;ve been negotiating with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he was watching me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and futile -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to be crushing one of these benches one day .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you were to , you all wouldn &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so i do the practice that i didn &apos;t want to do with the prospect that the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital station was going to be in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , and so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as a nature of strong , powerful and atlethic man .
this is just one example of how adults in positions of power can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the already quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries prove , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish to do : to enable anyone to see themselves as powerful people .
our language depends on the social change that has been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
from the medical standpoint , you can say , of course , my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities , and to move beyond the limits that their natural destiny has set them , not to speak at all about social networking platforms , people can give themselves a sense of identity , define themselves in their own way , and navigate around the world to groups that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something very special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt , is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people ask me over and over again to tell the story of how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never adapted to me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this set of efforts live on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being shaped by the associated experience , as if my life had been so successful , because i could refuse the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not a obstacle that we need to curve in order to deal with our lives better .
adversity is just one of our lives .
and i tend to see adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make any of the impact , or the severe of the fight of a human being .
there are adversity and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just ubiquitous , and each person is about it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with adversity or not , but how we can deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people that we love to protect the fatalities , but also to prepare them to get good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to have experience that was a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things : one , the medical fact of being amputated and another , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly saying that it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people that we care about , and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical prediction , or even to put a forecast for quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t actually disabled the ground for someone .
maybe the current concept , which is just looking at what &apos;s in a broken , and how we fix it , for every one of us , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive and appreciate all of his forces and possibilities , we also create in addition to the natural struggle that you might need to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventor &apos;s mind .
we should not deny or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we return them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds .
i think it &apos;s more about realizing that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embracing them to the hug , to grab them on the shelf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we have wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we can see vienna as something natural , consistent and useful , and we can &apos;t feel so troubled by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed to something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its species survives , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can adapt to change best .
conflict comes from creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to turn through conflict .
so again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut out of when we really get checked out of .
perhaps that &apos;s exactly the sense of adversity , a sense of the ick , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give new meaning to adversity that goes beyond difficult times .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant , because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can see adversity as a change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we have added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there is no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if they really existed ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could unleash this paradigm of normality against another of the possibilities or the strength to even form it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , have carried older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience in the survival force of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come up with -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city that i grew up in , into a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a snail of tomatoes .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; sorry , sir , we know each other ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married with a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man i only knew from narratives of my mother that day , because , of course , i was very typical , to my birthday , two weeks late .
my mother &apos;s doctor for pranatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without orphan legs , and my feet had been looking for them , and i had just a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the overwhelm , and this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids or that you could never live an independent life , and they &apos;ve just been lying to me since . &quot;
i found really extraordinary that he had collected newspaper snippets of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a spelling competition in the second grade , whether i was on the way to the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my sports victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you just can &apos;t emphasize enough how critical this factor can be for the quality of a human being .
and dr. kean kept telling him , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t always get told something else , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids with themselves , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over the course of time , if you had asked me when i was 15 years old , if i had swapped my prosthetic legs out of meat and bone , i wouldn &apos;t have delayed a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not in spite of these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen , because i &apos;ve met so many people who have opened doors to me , instead of meeting people who wanted to constrain me , or to overcome an idea .
see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how you can manifest your forces , and you &apos;re through them .
if you allow someone to activate your own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that , and for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open doors to themselves .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means creating something that is in one is to tickle the potential out .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who had been peaceful in 1958 .
but it &apos;s not always a bad thing to do .
again , what potential do we want to do now ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and in those days , gymnasia was transformed into total schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided by notes .
and the a students get a lot harder examined , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period , gave students a &quot; sufficient &quot; note very well , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , listening to the heart , the reverse of the one-student was told that they were only sufficient .
and that &apos;s what it was like after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- except for the students who had missed the school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers were not refused .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-year-olds , and they were the students with the grade enough , and they taught them something and they treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no more hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , child-like curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human mind to continue hoping to find themselves and other people around us beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we &apos;re really putting our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the prohibition , but the god who only knows four words , and he repeats them all the time , only says , come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , a better memory could have -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or would you like to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
when hundreds of different types of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and confident ?
how about living longer in good health ?
or maybe they &apos;re one of those who &apos;s always yearning for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s equally clear that the answer to the question is : it .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to read that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been an ongoing topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor on the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is what &apos;s wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it also about the future ?
is it true for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing species on the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this bush , way to the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , for most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms are very similar to our cells .
do you realize that we can use it and ask the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undistinct from what comes from pancreas .
and as we talk about bacteria , do you realize that every one of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than cells in the rest of our body ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think , if antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish without effort on their own .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s really a simple way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeody forced to get out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as important for their lives .
they help to digest essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in some kind of evolutionary equilibrium in the form of a species ?
or are we sure to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multicellular organisms , maybe as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just short measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and of human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you enjoy it .
clinical depression has exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in single organisms , each cell , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time , when multi-cellular organisms appeared , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that passes the genome , the rest of the body becomes desperate .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body in evolution is at the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at that point , but every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in the &apos; 90s in las vegas .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , when they have to explain these experiences themselves , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; this is wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survive generation after generation .
and so the imagery , in general , is that we &apos;re getting better , objective , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i have evolved like boster rockets to send the genetic question to the next level of the orbit , and then drop into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to achieve immortality by my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s only the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and so they survive the hot steam otherwise , if fish were there , they would have a vacuum of cooked fish , but they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for them .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what happens in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve achieved some kind of balance .
and the reason for that is that , first of all , through medicine , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and had been removed from the population .
and secondly , as a species , we &apos;ve configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to them in the same way that we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be a evolution of the traditional way , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slow , but they &apos;re imperative .
and as far as isolation goes , if we colonize as a species of distant planets , there will be isolation and the changes of the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there is a third possibility , a locking , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that is not just natural , but led and decided to be individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right , which is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be that we do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose the sex of your child , but also to do genetic adaptations in the body that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes in order to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or eliminate the reduction of cancer &apos;s risk or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that something is better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in drone to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and into the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long before the reality will be that there will be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it will be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering left the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who independently developed techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in an efficient way -- which is called frances arnold , &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize for the scientist shinya yamanaka was lent for his research in which he took an adult skin cell , a fibrocist , and by manipulating just four genes that induced cell to return to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming in .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself , but can also serve for immunity against other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been built in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it will be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
and then just imagine two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the egg , or the newly fertilized egg , to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- elimination of diabetes , remove the hemophility , the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the changes to prevent disease , could also enable us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the capability of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be inconsistent .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed by alt-style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point in which choice improves our common good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to take 100,000 years , and we can compress it for a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others of us ?
are we going to form a society that is more dense and uniform , or more robust and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions wise ?
the good ones , the bad ones , and the sooner than you might think , these decisions will be up to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you human ability , or another one that helps wheelchair users to stand up and go .
now , as a rule of question -- i &apos;m almost finished -- as a rule of question , the thing about thinking , what enables all these choices in industrialized societies is the material of wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they put on in the morning that will give them extra strength and that will continue to increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is actually the true confusion of human and machine .
but not only that -- they fuse and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who is on average about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the question that they should be wearing more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal cord injury , 30 percent of it -- chronic spinal cord injury .
so we thought that we would embrace this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help to deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design enables you to lift , to crawl , and to perform highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we are here to introduce this device to our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton of the year .
so it &apos;s true .
now let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are estimated in the wheelchair around the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and this is actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re talking a lot about very young people with spinal cord injuries , who were in the middle of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- being hit by fate , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population whose number is multiplied .
your problem is that you have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and by the way , it &apos;s been for 500 years since , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought that we could start writing a whole new chapter in the field of mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which is the result that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboard computer that &apos;s attached here on your back .
here are batteries , and the engine drive is on their hips , as well as their knee joints , which they move forward in this very smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old and pollinated when a monstrous pine tree was paralyzing me as a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my basin .
not long after that , a doctor came into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steal every five pounds of hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn to ski again , to climb and even drive with the hands of wheels .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair users , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is , steve levitt told you yesterday how these more expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i fight as the help of a fireman in a volunteer trigger , the fire .
now , in our city , where volunteers supported a high-skill professional fire department , you have to be pretty early on in order to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer in the field , so i had a pretty good chance to get in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible chief and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had just a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the battlefield and barefoot under a screen out in the rains , while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of the owner .
the dog ! i was out of date .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would review as a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was a lawyer or a proponent , who could now tell people for the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
now , i was the next .
the main man winded me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up , and you have to go by fire , and this woman has to get some shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went -- the stairs up , down the hallway , passed the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who , at that point , were quite ready with the delusion room to get some shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey down , where i met my neck and the beloved dog at the front door .
we carried our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fire department got a letter from the owner &apos;s home where she was thanking for the brave use of saving her house .
one of the most estimated kindness of kindness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at a big scale , but i also see acts of kindness and courage of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and see people who have either achieved a remarkable success , or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until you get to the first million .
if you have something to give , you give it now .
serve in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
not every day will offer us a chance to save a human &apos;s life , but every day it will give us a chance to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m coming back from a community that knows the secret of the ongoing of humanity .
a place where the women are leading the recipe , saying , &quot; hello , &quot; and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationships .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the congo forest .
if something that enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would the lives of people be improved , but our dignity will be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
now , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve overemphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by great , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the deep depths of congolese forest , and they &apos;re very hard to see .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the place of a violent argument that has ravaged for decades and demanded almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement rate .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat and the decline of the tree ingredient causes you to not even fill a stadium with the remained bonobos -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos life is made up of more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we &apos;re learning about trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution will make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all of these big choices are plaining us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about creating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and if you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she does .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea wealth that you can bring in new elements -- like the testicles -- and also how the game both demands trust and promotes trust -- while it &apos;s also tremendous fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a formal transducer , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just as they play , sometimes we play alone , and we refer to the limits of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we form are the real nutrients of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future in which we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing , cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this gold glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem very appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s hug and play this gift of evolution as we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , in exactly the same moment , each baby -- okay .
missed imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two pairs , each one baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because , if you think about the whole time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
just imagine for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survivable , both of them light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i was wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who question social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve worked with intersexual people whose sex is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word intersexuality .
intersexuality occurs in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a couple of examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t disagree with the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with a xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have fetal stage to grow up in testicles .
and so the testosterone in the fetal stadium gives off testosterone .
they picked up these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , and they concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body doesn &apos;t respond to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen-receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more to the typical female .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone gets into the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do a couple of tests , and they find that instead of the ovarian hives and uterus , she actually has testicles in her , and she has a y chromosome .
now , it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , in our bodies , have something called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , as i do -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk to androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed across the whole range .
here &apos;s another example : a few years ago , i got the call of a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had an ovarian hive and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle bubble .
he had xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitaly was mapped male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 , that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was interacting with the fact that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , where ovarian tissue is surrounded by hode tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- are often adapted to the norm by surgeons , is not because this is an advantage for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic exchange is going on with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity ; to be a black person is , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in one body .
where i had seen most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged by the world &apos;s leichatlethik championship in berlin .
many journalists called me on the question , &quot; what test are you going to do , which tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or male and intersexual and intersexual ; we are , in fact , the one that pretends to be this line as natural .
this is almost limited to complete security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have this kind of situation where , as our science continues , we have to admit to more , that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple attitudes to create permanent identity categories are much poorer than we thought we were .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we got into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re finding that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them by just a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward , we get increasingly into a zone of discomfort , where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas where we see this as a result , in our current culture , in the united states today , are the struggle over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about what the body becomes , so that it &apos;s a different right than the fetal life .
but being a metaphorical gold glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , catastrophe .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve been keeping a feather under the nose , and when it moved , they haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today we are in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re getting caught in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to realize that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and i &apos;m excited about it in terms of considerations about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racist , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they were doing , that every few years i found myself looking at the malignant musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what she showed back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years was measurable for us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth on the right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to father and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and about the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they nivellized the play field , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities counted , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew up together .
democracy was growing , but at the same time , science was growing .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they showed things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth law .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at the declaration of independence , for example , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of it , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and so they &apos;ve prepared the future civil rights movement in a really wonderful way .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , the women who were trying to choose , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic similarity is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; we have a uterus and an ovarian is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to own property , etc . , etc . &quot;
and women were arguing this successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement came , where we saw people like sodium truth , who were talking about it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the civil rights movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which appears in anatomic commonalities before anatomic differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing with the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start looking at all the commonalities , we have to start asking questions about why we keep certain separations .
now , well-being , i want to sustain certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from the anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be the right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try and figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been convicted at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both the same day in the middle of 1979 .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months ago , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani not only killed outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born the birthday appointment , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months early , she gets all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to have decent sex , to choose the right to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time he was born .
we find other oddities in terms of what their rights are .
heinrich , because you think he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you think he &apos;s male , he can now be pulled into what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t perceive the same right in all states that heinrich has in all states , which is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only maria today marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science makes such advances in the anatomy , that we can reach a point where we have to admit that a democracy that is based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , sometimes it feels like science is self-assembling .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture has a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas decided at one point that to marry a man means that you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen-receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of speech , &quot; a kind of solution .
he says that we should judge people not by &quot; their skin color , but by the nature of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like that , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever , who probably deserve social benefits rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labs that are more capable of making more fundier , more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how do we operate the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out it &apos;s really hard .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that could be machine readable in the future -- made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we go .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do our thing well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like in iran , for example , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to have a gender transformation in which he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago that had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and he asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids were very bad at being treated , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asylum rather than having surgery to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change for the state &apos;s will .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibility of what democracy could look like , or if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think , that there might be different kinds of insights that govern anatomy from different types of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender differences .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not everyone , but on average -- tend to give very complex social relationships and the care for people who are vulnerable within the group , give a lot of attention .
and so when we think about it , we have an interesting situation .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i &apos;m still doing it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what the feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
this is to say that there could be something on average , where female brains are different from male brains , which makes us more aware of complex social relations , and to be more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely consistent with figuring out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we could get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we have to go in the future , when we do democracy over anatomy -- think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to do a very public confession , and that is , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to have another colorful , crazy outfit , and also to photograph and blog in the last time .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of the second hand in flower markets and in second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , and trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe to the environment , and also to my wallet .
i meet all sorts of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me buy my own personal chatting .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
will i like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i put in this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that it &apos;s the only way forward to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven pair of underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i &apos;ve been tissue that i would find anything else that i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me when the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found some things .
and i want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i believe it or not , from these adventures , i &apos;m going to give you nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , not only will you understand it , you will appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
is it possible to make these really large molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i looked like i &apos;m playing dressing , or i remember their seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good at something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize this for you for a second .
if you think you &apos;re a wonderful person inside and outside , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they were drilling through each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailers fit with everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a personal , unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to emotionally arrest these things , because right around the corner , there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in my heart and i &apos;m looking for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a picture point , as a flying image .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m going to show you this is that , in the formula 1 in the last decade , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula one race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , you need , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , the information from the car , pass that information on to the system , and then process it and then use it to send that car back and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in the digitization of life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made up of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems start to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the free .
and as a computer in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- produce up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something about the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but it &apos;s still increasing , and our final point would now be to an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all this perceive and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that &apos;s organized by paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; sprich with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , start talking back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom out there is becoming both , a sensor and a driver .
and this is radically changing the interaction that we have out people with our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , he ended up taking the hammer and threw it on moses -- actually , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
now , today , our environment begins for the first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and pushing our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with the perception .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s been collected anyway by the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the head shock .
and anyway , italy won in the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that &apos;s happening in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took several years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber river .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline on the top .
it used to be afternoon , people here and there , doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a tor . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilets .
second half time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head shock .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
now , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to the celebration -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today , in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , this is about things that we use and consume .
now , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that are made of a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors you make .
but we know very little about where things are going .
so in this project , we actually designed some small markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the trash and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but that happens a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we think that if we see every day that the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re still throwing away every day .
and if we showed that to people , then we can move a behavior change forward .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about perceiving , and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk to you about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition to use water as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology with it ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the phi x 174 genome .
they create something like a water curtain with images of water .
when these images fall down , you can write on it , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he will open up to let them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavilion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and let them in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can actually let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , as in this case , you know , this day , when you drive the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was a lot more fun .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them open , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how people , the things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us to think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little imagery with changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the space .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , who moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a similar formation in two dimensions .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , is not the position of the imagery .
they can play with different kinds of things .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go to , and that you can move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you can see a real flyfire-controlling that &apos;s coming down to shape the same v that was before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this . so the same way we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is being controlled .
it could have a momentum that comes from people , from the movements of people , or things like that .
i want to show you something at first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different imaginations .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with color of gravity and motion .
that &apos;s what we want to use as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
recently , i was talking to the oil industry , and they said that they were getting this model right .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that we &apos;re going to bring people back to do something and change the environment -- almost something like what we call the cloud movement , how to move a scheme , but with a cloud .
imagine that anybody can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing about the last few years that &apos;s been happening is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and makes it accessible through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that &apos;s something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to ask us the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we change from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they &apos;re doing things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but covered with imagery .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both of these , the physical cloud in the sky , and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light bulb at night -- but most important , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about the relationship .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separated from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was terrified .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to figure out what was in front of me .
the iceberg rolled around me almost 60 feet out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and claim to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
when you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we often see people .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome . it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought we &apos;d build it in tapes of the size of the virus , where we could variate the size of the cassette tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe his prime-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it unleashes mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i pretend to take my pictures of these iceberg as if i make portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they exist in these individual moments , and never will exist again .
it &apos;s not a death if you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it now .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information on the computer , this digital information really has to be false .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five feet long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was in a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on was this guy .
his name is pace .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from the walk and said , &quot; paps , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the eruption of it .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that does design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it a little bit , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him anyway with the spear .
we found 30 errors in resequation , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back with him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you hear the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people aren &apos;t available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate now ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterling and pigeon bells ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and they have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units so they can fit together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to solve it .
i was committed to the place and to his brother and his father -- saying , &quot; well , my proposal is like this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw with a laser pointer on it , which is just registering the negative area .
so they pull around and make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the gender parts , and then the shrinks come , and then the bush publishing , and the last thing people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control things , we should find a way to control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first of all , we got the insurance of the doors , and actually got a device at the rate that he could communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought we were beautiful to do that , and that we came back and all the images on the walls were weighed for graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach promenade in venice , my kids were attracted , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks in .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach promenade , some copper wire and a few things out of the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we built it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we can provide the code for free , the software can be downloaded for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of constraints .
no insurance can be created .
no hospital .
now , everybody paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to speed &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rubber before the big unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and processed nights , tony , for the first time , drew after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve taken his bed so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew , again , for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
and luckily , we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i drew something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone grabbed down and raised my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids , and here &apos;s a single determination for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight cry .
that keeps us at the pole , and it keeps us going .
and we need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same for a magic panel .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve gotten all sorts of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrases , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong tweeted about us and then , december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest part is -- and that includes the whole circle -- that there will be an exhibition in april , in the geffen moca in the inner city of los angeles , called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is quite descending .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , it &apos;s possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with fiber technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should each of you ask yourself , every single day , where you get something that needs to be done . if not now , when then ? and if not me , who then ?
we just signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come along like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or you can have me in leather , but nobody has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classrooms .
i was the one who was beaten my life every week in the virgin toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the teacher &apos;s room .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to take a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy that i know you &apos;ve found it in between .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes . there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight to their family , because it was necessary .
it was something that we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was placed in my hands .
what happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i was talking about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , and we put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
it needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so happy that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you get up to 1,000 meters .
imagine a plane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant that makes a clap , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds frightening .
now , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them in a minute , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the overshooting so that we could sequence them , because we were trying to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already used the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
it &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most thoughtless words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; make it ready to break up . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was scared , life was over .
now i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment , everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to reach a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a saying that says , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is that far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to change anything in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was , when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much about hair width -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i was trying to get better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to get negative energy out of my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- while the internal clock starts , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; to count down .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 pieces , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of dying , man , is not terrifying .
almost as if we &apos;re preparing for our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wanted one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a homologous recombination mechanism that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense of me .
i realized at the time by connecting the dots that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , is my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became a miracle part of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who are flying today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to push , because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococcus radiodurans , which is the three million wheels of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents that you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty straightforward .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can compromise the systems that control the revolutions and the valves , we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure that gray box , then we &apos;re in business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows-dryer .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damages the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we figured that out .
when we started our research at stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing that we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , made by countless cerox , wax .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed on it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all folded up the way it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with various types of cheese , i realized that this is a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is tackling actively on the gray box , when a special configuration was discovered , even if the special program that tries to infect it on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could , say , for example , be a u.s. power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we &apos;d better figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s built into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the shoe size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for you .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about 15,000 lines of code here .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-working calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters were able to smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what kind of animal it was .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential targets in the real world .
so we needed theories about these targets that we could prove or disprove .
in order to set up these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely in iran because most infections have been reported there .
well , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
basically , it &apos;s going out to the pocket nuclear power station and the uranium incentive plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called them up , and i tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist in space and move , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of attacking was actually to make it happen slowly and secretly -- obviously , in the attempt to make warning engineers despair , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it very quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is very out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuge are built in sovereignty , and i found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa showed that there &apos;s a lot of them out there .
so again , that was really good together .
and this gave us a lot of confidence for the one we studied here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results were achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to recover .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just sovereign .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we &apos;ve made by using these processes -- actually , we just used leftover mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we &apos;ve adjusted them , and yeast then automatically assembles them .
here &apos;s something really cool that we discovered -- that really blew me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the inherent values of sensors -- so for example , of printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still available during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the pursuit of the monitoring , the monitoring camera is fed with previously recorded video .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just to list the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope . it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up disposal valves within milliseconds .
of course , it can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so , for example , he would work exactly as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to use the data on a usb stick , as we saw in stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
this is the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for those attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is footage over a six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to set up the consequences , and we start to prepare better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , there was a lot of reporting that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is the cyberpower superpower .
this is the audience that we just finished recently .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , luckily .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for hunting us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last couple of years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time kind of dangerous .
i went to prison -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been looking at most of my career in terms of terrible situations , and just trying to study all of this for social leverage , which is compelling and interesting , and hopefully in a way , understandable what makes it fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew that i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by people .
some of you may have heard that a couple of weeks ago , i did an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights on my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- to buy the name rights of the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now , who had no title or a lot of content , and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues to what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and which , after all , could fly around the ears after the content , especially if i loved your company for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people are looking at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that anybody would buy the name rights .
now if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i work on , my new film , we study the world of marketing , the advertising .
as i said , over the course of the years , i went into some pretty awful situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arrest me to go to something as difficult and as dangerous as these guys in a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole movie is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely tagged with brands -- from the cover sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes , and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we were to print it with a sizes of 10 and without distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not only going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so maybe we &apos;ll sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever wore ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , an attention from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , getting them to fund the movie ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be pleased to help ceg make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how recipient people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but do you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde of people .
what do you think the answer is going to be ?
the answer is likely to be &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do about the movie or a difficult thing to do for me ?
jk : both .
so ... means , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we have to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as simple if you do it in eukaryontes as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put out the camera .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out , &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a back conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
nobody wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept that the idea of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , let as many people see it as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting intermediate instrument that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can do a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this image is for is a problem .
you see , if you type transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and look through , instantly understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business spratics -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species , and in a sense , these two are so far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes so that we could choose this chromosome , and we decomposed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very rich graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes so far that it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that &apos;s still breeding .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange landway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in each story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , one agency , was willing to help us -- and that &apos;s because i know john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to go right with my team to the companies .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends doing big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends , who make little independent movies , say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
whenever i go on my way , and whenever i open the medical cabinets , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe before the interview , you should put a little bit of this . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either floral fusion or a &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we will be both equipped for men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short term .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing things like this -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all sorts of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of any place , adding thousands of characteristics in just a second to a species .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million company .
what about me ? what about the printing stype ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who &apos;s like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable faith of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of the black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that will have changed at a moment a lot from biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothing .
80s revival hits scaterpunk , except on the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like lots of black colors , lots of gray notes and stuff like that .
but i usually have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , reliable fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
part hippie , part of yogi , part of brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m the scholar guy .
i sell scholars all over the country , globally .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was exposed .
man 5 : brand sharp alcohol addicted writers .
is that possible ?
walt : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve already added .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often look at myself at the intersection of dark glamour and reliable fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could invade my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nests , fatty , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world in which you live -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come from a place , and they start for me , and they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of that to the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; period -- what does it bring us ?
it colored blue because of the genes that we &apos;d added .
what is the machete ? what puppetees are you at the moment ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , that &apos;s not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of it .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and converted completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing that i saw was this idea that their brand personality accomplished two separate , but it has supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock-brand is an eighty / playful brand .
they &apos;re very good .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than both of them .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to be afraid , these elements , and they &apos;re welcome , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a skilled chess .
what other brands are doing ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are brands and mindful brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighty , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would it be ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings the blood into whales ?
or are they more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative , conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , dropped out and lovely like erol flynn , agile , profan , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you mindful and monkey like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , considerable , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had over 500 companies that were up and down companies saying no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to pay attention to this control , who wanted to do business with someone as remarkable and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually have told -- stories that a commercial would never be supported .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you &apos;re using mris today to tap into the functions of the brain , both to make advertising and movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , there &apos;s been no time africans , no poster , no flyer , no nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are getting their way to poor schools , across america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i succeeded , are where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the mediterranean man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and what was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the sundance film had premiere festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-by-two weeks period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of cambrian explosion in which there could be massive new species education based on this digital design .
now , finally , the film has got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to , recommended to their clients to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i really believe in is that if you take your opportunity , you take risks , that are in these risks .
i think if you stop people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that as we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that they might be scared .
finally , as we move forward , we should be welcome to fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
a big lion , a big lion , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , let &apos;s welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty takes us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented to you by my good friends of emc , who paid 7100 for the rights of the name of ebay .
big data is being transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the altitude of $ 7100 to fund my ted endeavor in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i started doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who is now , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and your access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
so when i was traveling , and visiting these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google tproject.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
in fact , i come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t make any difference .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and amuse .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
in there they are , they want to go to the end of the gangs .
just go ahead . a lot of fun .
hide them .
thank you , but the best one .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plussign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all the metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click that away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion images ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in very easily and out .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized there &apos;s something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , and i talked to some known people at the met , and actually found out that this is a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the facial tuesday .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer this to nine .
the best one is still -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrushes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i really am at the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go out and create your own museum online -- out of all these pictures , you can put your own collection .
very simple , you go in -- and i created this , which is called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is &quot; the senior , &quot; in the national allery .
you can put all the comments on it , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , for me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was a humbling experience for me .
i mean , i hope that we will be fair with this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
this is the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitudes of each hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , that would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain at this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extreme , but i think , for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute that is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good proportion of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love playing with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that at the same time , one thing can only be in one place .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing at the same time is in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor .
he was another child , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was constantly falling .
but i bet he taught him a very valuable lesson to play with the ground threshold , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you by , and they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with soil swings , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all sorts of weird things -- how you fly right through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re primarily bumping into the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so i would feel much better about the whole thing if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so , a few years ago , i set out to do exactly that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it a little bit . we &apos;re looking right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we now have technologies because of these fast synthesia techniques to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and for 100 hours , i refined all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool of shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all sorts of weird things , but then other people go up and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to harm them , or , frankly , they &apos;re disappearing .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same way .
the fellow riders for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s flooding against them and the heat of the space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal acts in a quantum mechanical way , we had to kick out all the contributors .
and then we did .
we turned off the lights , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just sitting there quietly , it vibrated . the way it was vibrating was kind of like this -- like an expanding and coherent bubble bar .
in which we gave him a little push , we could make it happen at the same time to vibrate and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m telling you right now is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or making drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
only too precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom is at the same time in two different places , which means that the entire piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing me for all this year in the clean room , because , you know , check that , the difference in massfulness between a single atom and that piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not them ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were at the same time in several places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just selective . we can select by life ability , chemicals or fuel production , and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with your body being deloccurred in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , the light switched on and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talking about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
now , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it goes deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you actually sit down with , and you know new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition around new residents .
right now , we &apos;re far away from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that would welcome them .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could make the world very easy with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
just exchange the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments did this already ; the other half did not yet .
they could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they &apos;re going to go into , in these apartments and their surroundings , there are laws for avoiding and distracting from exploitation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out that it &apos;s very hard to come up with all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , assuming the laws there would support a building like this and not stop it .
so i proposed that governments create new surfaces that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
later , i found out that about the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people can stay in their country and can do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unsettled area of our country -- what if we just take it to a message , a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian embassy , and then if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , they can work there , and they can do anything on the surface of these messages that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a massive comprehension crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovations and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his stable leader .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , trying and studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the fundamental elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give new technologies great attention , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he again showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and he said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country . &quot;
so , in december , we met in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to figure out how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this chart to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we need to deal with the inexorable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and creating art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you saw corn recently to ethanol , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk was in very simple form that a charter city is a place whose beginning is uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and the people are willing to decide whether to live under these rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave one more with a filling talk that included a graph like this , which is trying to make the point that if you want to make a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applaud .
we have second and third generation fuels that will come out relatively soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnerships , they could benefit from their partners , who would support the laws for this charter and the performance , that everyone can trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the implementation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been in fear and mistrust for many years .
we went into an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology will have a huge impact on the cost of food , or the limitation of their availability is when we see co2 as an output material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it captures a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted on congress for a change in constitution to have a comprehensive rule that is reliable for special development .
in a country that has just been behind a massive crisis , congress has been elected for this change in constitution with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , were supporting this .
in order to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time at 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a large , new city center that was built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first to be the fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in building cities is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
you already have a building site , and you &apos;re talking about this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
also , urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been declared , there are many rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all around the world , there are 700 million people who admit that they would like to live in a different place .
a million people are leaving latin america every year and going to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families back to work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes it &apos;s even kids trying to find their parents that they , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea of thinking about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds of people around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition around new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i recently did a survey with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that are typically a typical american is 70 .
and also , recently , a study was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different subjects that this ceo is dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is working on 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category against those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re in dealing with the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , you know , because i &apos;m blind , just raise your hand if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the overlap problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store ; at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
he lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essig and over 500 different types of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank sewage .
i loved going to this business , but at one point i was wondering , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including the ones that were locked in boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to visit the filialleiter , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really provide all these possibilities to people ? &quot;
and he pointed out the buses of tourists that came every day and usually had their cameras on it .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marmelade gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it transforms co2 into methane , using hydrogen as an energy source .
we set up a little bit of coverage right at the entrance of the business .
we put in six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first , i guess what the case would be more people and try marmelade ?
there are more people who are left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , as if it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at the case where people bought more of a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
the people who were standing there when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who were standing there when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , when you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who you had six to choose than if you had 24 to choose .
now , to decide not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the problem of decision-making also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , on the subject of the day , financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability of that being saved more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people anything between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the participation rate was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that were offering two fund , there was a paragraph in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fund , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you get to participate , when there were more choices , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have the more options they have , the more they rent it , to vote for actia and fund .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had available , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions are one of the decisions that one would recommend to people if we care about their future financial well-being .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three fundamental negative consequences in humans that provide more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re moving up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they tend to choose for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective .
the main reason for this is that we may enjoy these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essig and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparisons and the limitations and then actually choose something out of the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate targets like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you can &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? becoming a major source of energy .
people are always concerned when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to limit , and the unimportant equal possibilities are going to get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in the sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of its 10 worst selling cats , they found that the winning went up 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the reducing of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today is aldi , and they only offer you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of saving , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how to mandate the choices , was something that david laibson has been very well designed with , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard employees are automatically participating in a life fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on putting the same approaches to the development of vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , it can &apos;t be your customers . &quot;
now , before we started this day , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer a ubiquitous vacation to the most beautiful street in the audience .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read you , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always in the back of a year , and we have a dollar too little in terms of the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
good .
the fact is that it was objective , the first time it had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that they felt it more real the second time .
because the images made it more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overload , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by making recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people having to understand the difference between possibilities , understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be vivid and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an e.u. card or a credit card than they do on barrel money ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel us real money .
and it turns out that if you can make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previously , we did a study with people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation in their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it always was , we just added a little bit .
the smallness that we added to it was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or increase by four percent in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryontes .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine process .
it turns out that in the wegman &apos;s supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , the number between 331 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and divide them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choices and a better choice than i would have given you the 400 , if i had given you the 600 categories .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called swing .
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think that &apos;s jazz on the left , and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are removed from making people better . our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the voter something , not the one who provides the choice .
and this problem you often see when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : implementation for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
let me show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : buy a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they provide per decision .
car color , outside the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the small possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice in the decision all the time , that means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the healthiest , i lose you .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough go over and over and over again the standard choice .
we &apos;re losing them .
go from the little choices to the many , then stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear selects , it doesn &apos;t tell me about my preferences in the interior , it still prepare me to choose .
so now it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever approached -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also excites me in the excitement of the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be involved in this .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision-making -- limited -- get rid of the over-fluid alternatives ; concrete -- do it real ; categorize it -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best choice is that you &apos;re selective in the choice .
and the more we &apos;re choosing , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube , and i &apos;m looking at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video is becoming viral , and then why it &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that there was no religious faith in sub-saharan africa . of course , there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so hard to do .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become insanely famous in a part of the culture of the world .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
and again , only a tiny percentage of that is ever viral , and it &apos;s looked at thousands of times , and it &apos;s at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in the yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because you do that when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet that ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you didn &apos;t think we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos;s friday is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graph looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we &apos;re taking pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other peaks are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
now , tosh.0 forgot , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared a big audience and accelerated the process .
then this community of people who shared this big insider joke started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-way conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
this is what i work on . he calls the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we do with it .
who could have looked at all this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat &quot; ?
what are the scripts that you could have written in ?
in a world where every minute two days of video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can emerge like the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i was not particularly interested , when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy who protests in new york against ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t drive on the bike route , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t keep you driving on the bike route .
because that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at five million times , and his argument was viewed .
this approach is true of everything that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
and all of this leads to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and in which the audience determines popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- did his beginning in youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today , we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind , in the march of the communications in saigon , as he has to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now joking his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused immense levers in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next puzzle part shows how a boat is running out in the early morning red at sea .
my mother mai was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had set her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film , saga glitt took a boat still on the lake as a fisherboat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that laid the entire distance around the lhc , then , intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to put a rain of particles on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
when i was a prisoner , my sister and i would have drunk them by themselves and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bow , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the failure of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that gave me one of the men on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like this again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we were down in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the ancient middle-class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the smells from the latitude bars came from the rest of the world .
and the feathers of broken english were swapped between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother was working on farms , and then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double layers .
somehow , she managed to find the time to acquire english and item qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , the new things that came out of the second hand .
two couple of school drops , each to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the knobs , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest lever , or this , when someone visited the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; bad eye , &quot; and here and there were mural paintings : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
where do you go ?
something went up in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movement of our grandmother in the house .
my mother had nightmares from the boat .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came , so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , and then did a cosmetic education and opened up a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t make the change , angry and inflexible , and sorted children , caught between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built up .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who was making inexquisite demands on her own .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe life , carrying tragic scars of violence , of drug abuse and isolation .
but so many got aid over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak to places that she had never heard of , and in housing whose existence she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown precedented -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have closed each of their days as closed as they &apos;ve been for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we still have three in the same bed .
i said to my mother , i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we climbed the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i was talking about juggling and training , and the neglect of the marginalized and discharged .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires are running 13-thousand amounts when the machine is running on high-performance .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated from my degree , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized , at the same time , that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a new incentive , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because to belong so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
now i &apos;ve gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that were not allowed were expressed .
there was an energy , an unquestionable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and humility .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the shoe is not &quot; going to be an inconsistent challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at you and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i was cooking a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can afford that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called the superconductors .
life hasn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother was raising her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
with no support of her husband , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to the court and being a lawyer in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; proved to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney , when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shock wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she &apos;d come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories and insured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let it go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you see who we were , and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to the jellyfish .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a defect of manufactured .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of justice .
can i give you a bug in your life , which is courageous to dry every wave , the inadequate , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon , which doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is here today in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t pick up with your camera .
so all of a sudden , the wires heated slightly , and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography began when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my former preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much riding street .
but it has an unexpected turn .
and yet , it maintains a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones give birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like she could have done that in a picture .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional like it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that &apos;s not possible .
so we overlist our brains , because our brain just doesn &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make an image look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise you just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same type of lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot out of the same height and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , photography added to the individual images , like depth of field , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the lower part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a lift trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconstructed them , repaired them .
and yes , i even colored the house on the top of the island in red to make it look more swedish .
so to get a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to be on planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that &apos;s imitating us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects are missing .
and i think the most important point is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way now .
and one of the things that we introduced at radboud university was to do a major audience .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it puts a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do it ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everybody -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . very simple thing .
it has a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilos .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be working again .
and there they are also called by my general specialist so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only in the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know that , i &apos;ve got over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump to my wlan-scale , and people talk to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer pressure , peer pressure , to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could get used to smoking .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play any kind of game together to control their health better .
next week , this is the market .
there will be this little blood pressure detection device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for more than 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients can come in , not only can they take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in terms of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to be able to collect first data in june or july , and we &apos;re going to continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use , and start hugging with this , patients in the team .
and they can do that by such methods , but also crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is to share with you a short video .
we have all navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way , these accidents , again , the debate for the value of science and engineering on the frontiers . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
nobody knew where the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we set up a website , and we asked a human mass , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where it is , when it has it , &quot; because sometimes it &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this not only as aed4u , as the product is called , but as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we &apos;re asking our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationships or somebody else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these might be copious services , or technicians , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us do that , and try to improve health not just something , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to move to conservation by ...
... crowdsourcing is paying attention to it .
the spirits can be conspiraced by the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to temporarily deny the soul of the living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shining moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , as i suppose , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , he said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumph is complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it may take a long time to be charged .
now -- we can just skip that over -- i &apos;ll just skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is pretty much everything that they actually hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called code for america , and it &apos;s a bit like the peace scorps for computer freaks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re sending them to town users .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban collaborators .
but what they really do is to show what is possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he really is looking for is somebody who &apos;s freeing him up when he &apos;s in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire , when he &apos;s covered by a meter snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year in boston , the code for america .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never frees up these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developers would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you voted to him freely when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my job , but it &apos;s more than that , of course .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows have written in the last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it spreads rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. department of the city of honolulu , who has seen that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can unlock the bugger sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my big , lifelong love and fascination .
and it has spread , of course , frictionless , organic .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work like that .
it typically takes a few years to get software .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months .
it was about a method that parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it went over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that has cost the taxpayer two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then spreads from rarity is a kind of a shot before the bow on the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should be .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but what &apos;s more important about this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a wired institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and this is a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to make things effectively together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people around the country who are standing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair her .
however , recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has made me completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost out of our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake of the work office and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you think about it , because things change .
politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government finally exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought that the government is mostly about choosing people in a office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about community rats .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i was writing a book recently -- a biography called the chroeat , pray , love -- which , unlike all of my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually get out when you call 311 in your city .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government because of many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock skin off ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston has not just a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in , &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happened to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking about human to human .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next post that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacine ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- the demise !
turned the trash bin on the page . went home .
good night , sweet thylacines . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital is hitting the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped a different citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
and the voodooists like to say , &quot; you know , you go to church and you talk about god .
for example , do you get very worried about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the creature , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how many times have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , reflected our values and fulfills our needs , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write down your whole life and never recreate a book that anybody cares about in the world ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that this thing that we own and we pay for is something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is going on .
we have to rely on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupation movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the legislation of finance reform .
it &apos;s not political , it &apos;s bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world we want to leave our children .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can do in the name of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of the government in a way that can actually do something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our field is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing her voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting , because of who is allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can express your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do it .
so when you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told , as a teenager , that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to release a hydrant , to hunt uncrows , to turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive performance .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , will we be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; aren &apos;t you afraid to never succeed ? &quot;
my role is usually to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up will be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think . and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can hardly keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single boring slide .
... could you just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i happened to choose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows us data on the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like so many others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is happening here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights again .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here in a minute .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , that on the semi-logarithmic scale would be very unreasonable in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if transportation technology was going to continue as fast as the microprocessor technology , then we could go into a taxi overmorning , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
aren &apos;t you afraid that you &apos;re going to go after this craftsmanship for your life and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a rotated dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it &apos;s not that fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the size order is exponentially increasing every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it will happen here .
it &apos;s kind of like that .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we are here on this line , in a transition from the world that we have now to a new kind of world .
something like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself is , how is this new world going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is beginning to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was the future somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we don &apos;t go further than that .
so in other words , the future has been shrinking by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that something is going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know that at the moment it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look into the future 30 or 50 years , because everything will be so different that a simple computation of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is , yes .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do that , i &apos;m going to first talk about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because in order to really understand this , i think we need to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time-scale of life on earth .
i think the overall picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and that &apos;s 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clumps with lots of floating chemicals .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did this .
i also think there are theories that are beginning to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story of it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was swinging around , which had different types of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form .
however , these oil droplet droplet weren &apos;t about alive in today &apos;s sense , because each one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiply in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet dropts learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplets have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information , in a certain chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , they found a way in this spiritual , evolutionary way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information was the same over the period of 2.5 billion years that it was born .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same type of writing .
and that is , every being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that , just for fun , we can write things in this code .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white powder here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security workers .
there &apos;s -- what i did is i took this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i amplified it 10 chro22 times .
so if anyone wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for anyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i was actually an egoist , then i would have written it on a virus and released it into the space .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the demise of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that nobody would know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , and that is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities were born of cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities , which were in a sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , and that meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about one more billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other terrifying things .
in fact , we are such a multi-cellular community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level on which evolution was happening was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step happened now within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing else but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started educating specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;m wondering , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point an individual -- learning happened within the period of time of the lifespan of a single organism , rather than over this evolutionary period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
this could now happen within the lifespan of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could happen within a time of learning .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , unordered and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically putting in some cruel notes of mine , hoping to create a very confused idea in your head , which has a certain similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this now allows us to work as a unified organism again .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multiple cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods that we hold data .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video obstacles , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work they feel to do ?
you also saw tys &apos;s little evolutionary example of where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program right in front of your eyes .
so now we speed up the timeline again .
the first steps in history that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- if something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other people don &apos;t do jobs ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the compound machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do is , we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give this machine , and the machine makes it something that exceeds our capabilities far , better and faster than we could ever do .
and she does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even understand so far .
one way , which is particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the micro-second area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that emerges from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly chosen sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please lead all of these randomly chosen instructions , run out of all the programs , and eventually choose those who are the closest of my presentations . &quot;
so in other words , i first define what i want .
let &apos;s say , i want to make numbers , that &apos;s a simple example that i &apos;ve been using for it .
so find programs that can be the most accurate number .
of course , the chance , at random elected instructions , is very small that , by chance , they &apos;re actually sorting numbers , so i don &apos;t think any of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them , with some luck , may put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come next to my lectures .
store them , delete the rest .
now , reproduces all the rest of the remains that the numbers have best sorted .
and with a method of recombining , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemistry block , john -- how do you do it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids eradicate the characteristics of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have been created by combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the presentations than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
rate them again .
perhaps lead some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can run through an evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfect numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t occur , you know ?
and when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
these are versatile and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because your life depended on whether you did the job right .
i used to sit in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he &apos;s pulling out a map , and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &apos; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of pieces that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; don &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an aid process is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we start to rely on computers for a process that is very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re being taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists have not received the call of alcohol addicts of manic depressed people over the centuries .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we now use these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today feed themselves .
we &apos;re going to take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time , as a single-cell organisms have evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of reputation , but not only the writers , but the creatives of all genres seem to have this reputation of being mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very , very humble to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the stars in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at the time , we jumped into a car and swirled across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , the young and often of your own hand died .
at the time , when the great indian war prince arjuna was thirst , he took a bow , shot it into the ground and water came out .
now we &apos;re doing this with drillers and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it scared me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world of pirate and unhappy ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
i felt like our ship clocks and cameras were holding us out of it .
they kept us inspired .
and so i went into the technology world to see how i could use it to enable magic instead of killing .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling uses more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i just go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i get a figure in the book .
every once in a while , a letter for me falls down -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip out the ipad and leave the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they were lighting the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be in a single mold .
and so here every book and every world becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magical device in the machine .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had cards , but these cards have been static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even know when we hear somebody say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , and somehow we &apos;ve been so internalized and collectively accepted that creativity and suffering are somehow related , and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras chambers for thousands of years in an old muffy book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story that confronts new issues , like the environmental crisis .
in the theme of environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in one chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is , is this idea for you completely fine ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fool today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; today i &apos;ve seen a monkey . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you actually took .
there are a variety of ways of connecting the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of 11 that appear on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we &apos;re all moving towards a world where the forces of technology can get closer and closer in the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with it ? because with just a centimeter away -- i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social building settlements and places where there is a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things here that have influence in the world .
and sometimes when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it wouldn &apos;t otherwise have .
i find them adventurous .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a committed teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household , which was dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a tough , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trunk state , the glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability to affect the body so that it stops when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it be taken over into the next century .
she was also the origin of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born a slave in virginia in the 1840s .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery really formed her worldview .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a young boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was something that made you always want to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative encouragement .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get your attention .
my cousins went all over the place .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that one morning i woke up and went to the living room , all my cousins were walking around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room and staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this went up to 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and came over to me , and she took me by the hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we need to talk . &quot;
i remember that it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that , for me , in my situation -- it would be very dangerous to start , to shrink this dark path of conjecture -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me outside and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise that you &apos;re not saying it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know that i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; the next thing that i want you to do is to do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing .
i thought , &quot; yes , grandma . i promise . &quot;
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you &apos;re never going to drink alcohol . &quot;
now , i was nine years old , and i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack of beer with snatched my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered my sister one , and she took on , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . today we do it , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink . &quot;
then he looked at me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still doing crazy about the conversation with granny ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandma tells all the grandchildren they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s very likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is reviewed by the world as the work that came after my last book &apos;s descending success , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to give you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be broadcast publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m standing that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren they were special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s very likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncle died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that this was the topics that we had to care about .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all the black young men are either in prison , abandoned in jail , or with conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , it &apos;s also disposed by poverty .
we have a judicial system in this country that &apos;s much better at them when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be quite pleased with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , drink gin , and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama permanently draws you the right to vote when you &apos;re convicted .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population permanently lost their voting right .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honor rights is going to be as high as before the passed of the election law .
the silence is ears .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , there &apos;s life sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue doing this work that i love .
i put people in death cells .
the question of death penalty is an interesting question .
we think , because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is : did a human being deserve to die for a crime of him ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other point of view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but have we deserved to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we &apos;ve found for innocent , that has been discharged and discharged from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one in nine of them innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique sound of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , were the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly an airplane if for nine airplanes to pick up , one would fall down .
but somehow , we &apos;re able to get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i talk a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after a while of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for african-american people in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped her life .
these older people are now coming up to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re giving talks . they &apos;re telling people to stop saying that we have to do it for the first time in the history of our nation with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the race race and decades of the rapidly motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way of writing a safe distance between me and my very natural climb about how the response to the writing will be .
and so we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping up .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that race is not over without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there is no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , she can never give more . &quot;
as i &apos;ve been looking for models last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about how to help creative risks that are connected to creativity .
it became completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our history , it &apos;s impossible that we ever refer to the systematic killing of people .
it would be unaware of us to consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state had people set up , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unknowable .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we put people on -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it is black . 22 times higher , when the charged black is , and the victim knows -- in the same states where the body is paralyzed by yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnection .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this is a quest that led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but finally , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deployment , limitation .
it seems to me to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about how we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to insist in a complex world .
for me , this means bringing up time , thinking and talking about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to ultimately believe things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we value intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development don &apos;t just come from our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic things .
vaclav havel , the great cherry politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , a willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places , and to be witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities also need to be engaged in .
there is no boundary to technology and design that allows us to be completely human as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it will deeply touch you .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she &apos;s wearing two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bush boykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white , whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women would come together and just talk .
every once in a while , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so winding .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine diener-mind that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to prefer injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocent convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine diener-spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; she &apos;s going to be very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and therefore she has to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think that the ted community should be a bracket .
we need to find ways to face these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a few very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
now , from socrates , he believed that he had a demonstration that told him that he was farther away .
if someone takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill somebody , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that the law has to respect .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so stimulating , we &apos;re not going to be measured at the end of our technology , not in the things that we &apos;re developing , not in our intellect and minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how it &apos;s treating its rich and powerful and privileged , but how it &apos;s dealing with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerted .
because in this context , we &apos;re only beginning to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose balance . i end up with a story .
offspring of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people moved back to an isolated volcanic massive , which rise above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , and this kind of body loser called a &quot; creative mind . &quot;
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishments .
i go to the research prison and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who is supposed to be in court as an adult .
then i ask myself , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn somebody into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night i stayed up too long , and i thought , oh my goodness , if a judge can turn us into something else , it must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also wish them .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t think right anymore , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this contract , and the headline said , &quot; to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my contract , i explained that misconduct of the state council and the police and the errors were consistent .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that &apos;s just going to be misconduct .
the next morning , i woke up , and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed this crazy contract , or actually written it .
and to my application , i had not just written it , but also sent it to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to live literally in the walls of an artist studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and the artist at work would sort of help invisible and design the outcome of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought it was so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase .
when i uploaded the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me in the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there &apos;s the distance i was talking about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
now , i walked into the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you put this crazy comment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office workers .
in the trade , the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor walking up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial excitement in the courtroom and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and it disturbed that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal out of the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted , because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going to go far , but it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of aging was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we &apos;re not completely evolved as humans , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is connected to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want those of you who see this , just to say , don &apos;t lose your goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen , in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere
if you live in california , this spring , there &apos;s a census that are about actually trying to do a effort to implement something of the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the deadlines don &apos;t end with arrest .
when your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t get to look at it all for you , and everybody knew that you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put in a context with the heightened incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided cross against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your mistakes , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prisoners .
we tear down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of little good , instead of forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a penalty , not less .
and i think our punishment now is not helping anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , you &apos;ve really brought a string to swing here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death is a rising risk of driving .
everybody knew your genius was a little laugh .
two : famine in somalia . pepper spray of the police .
four : malignant cartels . five : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social decline . 65 deaths .
tsunami warning . 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . stand still . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media prefer to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
so the people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second every day , our senses are catching up much more information than our brain can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first place for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it carries and cuts all the information in search of any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; when it bloods , the demand &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices , seven days a week , 24 hours a day , to put all these negative messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came , and everything changed , and we had this big idea , and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries , and there is no longer room for mystical creatures who take orders from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces so much that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity deaths , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but they &apos;re ultimately overcoming .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so that we can predict the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , the appropriate average income of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has decreased by a tenth .
and then the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have decreased a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re now living in a very peaceful time of human history .
and charles kenny , according to the literacy rate , has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity was completely from their individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and many people forget this .
and we keep increasing our expectations .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
remember that a large percentage of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators on earth , could never have dreamed of those luxury goods .
the basis of many of these are creating technologies , and these are growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil showed us that every tool that becomes an information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and doubles the price performance quotient every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , people hear this or this artist call a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law for the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high contrast .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it &apos;s slowing down for none of our big problems .
also , despite their logarithmic trajectory on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so growth itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to all of us .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; what my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow us to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccinations and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson defeats human adversaries . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask students to create companies , products and services that , within a decade , can positively contain the lives of billions of people .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he thinks he &apos;s or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to burrow them up to a fragile human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have sound ridiculous .
today we can refer to dozens of companies that have done exactly this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; i &apos;m talking about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about making goods out of scarce .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of free power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
the king of siam , though , got aluminum bribe .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plain .
this is why the dome of the tone monument was made out of aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t occur as py metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet that &apos;s filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , jumps on the surface of the earth .
this is what makes and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not about scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , they were able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped 50 percent last year .
last month , this has published a study that shows that by the end of this decade , in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy is going to cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy excess , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back towards the earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has killed our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent water covered .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are rushed , and we &apos;re fighting at 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but here &apos;s hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me permission -- his engineering , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water every day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology &apos;s supported innovation that we have today .
and if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- the question is , you know ?
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
you know my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent reduction rate of mobile phones in the developing world to the end of 2013 .
just remember that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look with your smartphone on google , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally degraded and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what is expected for us in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing with the qualcommand foundation what &apos;s called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can clean up or test your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna-or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health agency and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the largest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will be connected to global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to desire ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic benefits in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be trained better by the khan academy , and so they &apos;re going to be able to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , unheard voices before .
how about the oppressed , wherever you are , giving a voice to pay attention and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned through the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to conclude with a story that really excites me .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
and it showed that today the human pattern recognition is better at folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant in the business department in a rehab clinic , and at night the best protein teacher in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the big challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would actually sign up the really righteous scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people are following and applying federal magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and i am .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time to allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to make this happen .
but before i get to the actual issue of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it &apos;s about statistics , and to use that , it &apos;s a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat is beating 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 beats .
this is called the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t get it on time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what a 3,000 in major league baseball is called ?
well , really good , maybe a all-star .
do you know what a 400ter is called ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after which i &apos;ve talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindfold .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your house doctor is transferring that to a cardiologist whose average performance is about 200 vascular representation .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday victim , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re sending each of them , including me , to the world , to be perfect with the claim .
never make a mistake , but no one carries about the details of how to do it .
and this is the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
in high school , a high school student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and that &apos;s what it was .
and i learned in my little dachstub in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely crazy capability of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of each artery , which takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renale tubustorre azidose .
and all the time i was collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i closed with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me in the emergency room of the hospital .
at that point , i was proved to the cardiological layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my mission when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everyone here -- doesn &apos;t always behave reasonably .
and to give feedback to my chief doctor .
i studied woman printer , and she was in breathless .
and when i listened to her , she made heretical sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart is failing , instead of pumping the entire blood , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung and fills it up , so the shortcut came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressures of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , pills of water , so that they leave the liquid .
and over a period of time and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , he can sometimes feel really paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my chief doctor .
i didn &apos;t take up the audience , and i did what i was supposed to have , what a phone call would have been at my chief to explain it to him , so that he had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew that he would have been able to contribute extra information to her .
maybe i did it with a good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the finstar , in stone huts at the base of the glacier for 18 years . two periods of nine years , intentionally elected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their quiet mother , they &apos;re now spending metamorphorically in the lap of the big mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was poet all of her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the village of virginia , she said she could feel and hear how a poem came across the landscape .
and by sending them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so sick of self-confidence that i asked the nurse who cared about woman printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it , and she said , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the abandoning papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency room .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there was another nurse saying , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words feared most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid , but emergency medicine is very special because we see the patients so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse said , &quot; well . &quot;
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the assistants of rescued them back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock condition .
she hardly breathed , and she was running blue .
that would roll across the country to you .
the emergency staff pulled all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure increases .
they put them on the respiratory machine .
i was shocked , and i was bumped into the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered an untreatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to it .
on the other day , they made them go -- woman printer , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of the people who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next few weeks , i set out to design , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt isolated , i felt isolated , not the kind of healthy shame you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret of the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it swells you on a mastery and then you get caught , and the best friend is confronting you with it , and it &apos;s a terrible discussion , but if you end up with the bad conscience , and you &apos;re sworrying that you &apos;re never going to make a mistake like that .
if you do review and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i talk about is the one that makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t on the basis of my top , he was very dear .
she knew that at such a moment she could only do one , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the chief doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it took off .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said maybe i could feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could stumble .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was only that she had to get quickly enough to a sheet of paper and a pen , so that she could , if it was thundering through her , catch and hold on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a local hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a rich rake .
it was a lot of time , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the racks , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even when he went out the door , he pointed at his rachs .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my boss asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t get to the house , and the poem rolled through it , and she missed it . she said it would keep moving over the country , and , as she said , she would look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature rach ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s infected a streptococcus infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rach , but the upper respiratory pathways , and it causes the exclusion of the breathing pathways .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , and i felt liberated , and i went to the work , until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve seen two times a blindfold .
there &apos;s a lot of this , especially when you think about how you &apos;re working in a hospital that only had 14 patients a night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was no lack of them in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- the part i &apos;ll never forget -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one thought i had kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when this was without a findings , my colleague , in the revision of the patient , had a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate it , and i asked my colleagues to look at it as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , surgery became surgery , and they were doing well .
both of them naked to me , and they asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes were just in the first five years , which is what many of my colleagues say , but total nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and unsupported .
so , she runs to the house , and she &apos;s looking for the paper , and the poem goes through it , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through it , and then -- she said -- it was like , with her other hand , she grabs it and she grabs it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can voice the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t find , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes , so they don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about someone talking about failures about failures ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i went into a room full of colleagues , and i asked them their immediate support , and i started telling them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before they really did not want to be comfortable , anybody would be joking a joke , they would change the subject and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off somebody &apos;s wrong leg , believe me that i had trouble looking into the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them , the ones that constrain sleep deprivation , and the ones that have no limitation , the bad outcomes and the good outcomes .
she caught the poem on his tail and pulled it back into her body and took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies attacking a human being .
and there is the idea that if we banish those who make the mistakes from medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my approximately 20 years of medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical trial on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first articles that i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we work in a system where errors happen every day , where one in 10 medications is either a false or wrong dose , where hospital infections are becoming more and more and more and more numerous and more devastating or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of transitional errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is reaching the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as precisely as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all this time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- are maintaining equilibrium .
in these opportunities , the poem came out and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge is doubling every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathogens for a patient with breast pain .
and then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat him , and i give him a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is transmitted with contempt .
i &apos;m not taking the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this , in summary , is inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i was taught to do it , and you put out all the errors of health professionals , there &apos;s no one left at the end .
when i heard that , i thought it was very scary -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know the leaders about people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit to say , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would make everyone from rescue assistant to the head of the cardiologist say , &quot; this is my worst mistake &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show with the microphone to him .
and then their pupils are expanding , they &apos;re bumping in front of their head , and then they &apos;re looking down and swallowing hard , and they &apos;re starting to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that will put them in a position .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , knowing for his humanity , accepting it , is not proud to make mistakes , but all of it is to learn from them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
that &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
and it shows others their mistakes , not just to make it , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people are filling the system with life , and if that is , people are making mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups that make it easier to find errors that make people inevitable , and also enable them to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who observes health care can actually address things that are potentially errors and even rewarded for them , and specifically for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for the funerals of those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human being . i make mistakes .
i &apos;m regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a multinational . to be able to work , i have to get up and sweat every day at the same time , and i &apos;m tired and i &apos;m really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about transformative standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories earlier to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing finks , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , he was fished in a big way .
but even i was in my multinational species , sometimes this thing rips .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
this is a story that we &apos;ve heard many times from the galapagos or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos islands .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochure bars still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , a different concept that can be changed .
because i experienced it when i was studying a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and some mangroves were surrounded .
there was a colorful of about 20 inches , black carpenter breeders , an underspecies of the bunk .
the fisheries of these bunks were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on average and earned well in ghana .
when i went back there 27 years later , the fish was shrinking to half its size .
they grew five inches .
they were genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also lucky enough to be there .
so it hasn &apos;t changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my participation in the introduction of the trawling net in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fission meant countries that were already catching 100,000 fish , the industrial fishery of this rather ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
i went on it , and we made elevations all over the south south chinese sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the bottom of the ocean .
90 percent of our fancy was sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the trushing pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck , and then it was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you do an elevation , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case , a hard reason or soft corals will be crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they threw them away because they were dead .
once we got a life .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate with this without losing our minds , but keeping us on the contrary of even mental health ?
but it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a series of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits , and i got to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and in the end , you just want to get the pathetic remains .
that &apos;s what we &apos;re going to do now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared , or things that are no longer as they were .
now , you might think that the problem is looking at people who were certainly living in predatory societies , killing animals , and who only became aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies .
so you don &apos;t lose a common ancestor .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a huge loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they &apos;re getting rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out one day , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystall-clear moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to shine on the hands of the amazing beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they &apos;ve learned in the abstract splendor is confirmed . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassing modern artist who was trying to handle these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept that ?
now , because you don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they will confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not what they would like to demonstrate the evidence .
there is , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain soundso , who has observed large fish , can &apos;t be used by fishing scientists , or by fishing scientists , is not usually used because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we rebuild the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area and benefit from the insight that enables them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- for example , the people in the midwest ?
here , i think , the art and the movie may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the colors and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think of &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahontassian story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s waking something that &apos;s kind of gone missing .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron , so he &apos;s turning &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as it &apos;s often inspiring , is jolly tangible for him , and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t touch them .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a sheet of text from this typewriter .
the reason for this is that the government could track back where a text came from .
and they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of these thoughts .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do this , and how much that would constrain the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , then this page has printed light yellow spots on every page , in a pattern that clearly retraces the page to you and your printer .
that &apos;s what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the existing online problems today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiev in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked forever by this song .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjordan sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegal by using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying on an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency frozen the swiss account of mr. sam jain here two months ago , and in this account , 14.9 million u.s. dollars was frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;d like to argue that it &apos;s more likely today that we become victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most of the crimes will be online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it .
the second largest group of attacks that we see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main groups : criminals who are doing it for the money , hacktivists like anonymous , who are doing resistance , but the last group are nations , governments that are running the attacks .
there are cases where we are , like diginotar .
it shows an example of what happens when governments are attacking their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to announce insolance , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody was broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the senior people in this group the question of whether he could tell that because of the diginotar hacks , people had died .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die in the aftermath of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate is required if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail , or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly prevalent in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversation .
but can you do it if you &apos;re in a foreign foreign .
certification agencies hack and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process and did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 looted the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of acts .
in those records , there was a folder called finfisher .
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that had sold some programs to the egyptian government that they could -- in very large framework -- any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program to the egyptian government for 280,000 dollars .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , only a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans , and this was a trojan who was used by german government officials to get their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re certainly going to tap into your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ?
but today we &apos;re way beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojan to play their computer with a trojan who allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right that we give away is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , blindly , of any future government , of a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module made out of cement with fixed measurements that fit .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in the position of building things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically compelling stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the world &apos;s building block , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would bring us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squawk somebody else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them together wrong .
the stones are color coded .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue one and a green one , and you can quickly build bigger circles .
they put a blue one on a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsary , which is here , and you made a little blind person .
add that buzzer for an extra effect , and you &apos;ve made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple play , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or resolve , littlebits allows them to program simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blind , they just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to put every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , notes , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we see them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how they start to understand the electronics that they surround in their day-to-day lives that they don &apos;t learn in school .
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator stay open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had , for example , designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and they said , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it continued to be as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a bumblebee of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available to all of us .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing it .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climb that surrounds it was lifted when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t cause anything but trouble and left it where it came from , in a way , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be an actual , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the stranger , external thing that was not quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit the way i was working , and it saved me before .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of these pillars of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are responsible for the younger brothers of the world &apos;s destruction .
i started thinking , i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered how tom had spoken in the sky , and i tried .
so i took my look from the manuscript , and i spoke my commentary towards a blank corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross up here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that -- you know what , then the hell with it .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i &apos;d like to give the protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because , at the end of it , it &apos;s like following . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have been gathering with sacred dances and music that have been stopped for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like time to stand still , and the dancer came through a kind of pform , and he did nothing other than he ever did before -- 1,000 nights before , but it all came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be human .
it was illuminated from the inside and illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminated through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what it was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing : ooh , allah , allah , allah , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
historical footnote : when the pockets were conquering south spain , they brought this practice . the language changed from the centuries of moleallah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , that you still hear in the fight and flamenco dances .
whenever we think of innate and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old smell of the noble wild , which is a racial thought in its simplification , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical , something magical : it &apos;s an allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , it &apos;s there : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and no longer carries a five-pound of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortgage with painful knees , and maybe it will never rise again to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name when he rotates , but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite as full of embarrassing if you didn &apos;t believe in the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you may only believe that you &apos;re a loan -- of an unthinkable source for a reader time of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so , innate babies are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think with security in the last few months , while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , well-expected follow-up of my deceased success .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about it is , don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you have to go to the side , for a moment , decides to show a smoke of miracles through your effort , it &apos;s an olé !
and if not , still dance your dance .
and , you know , it &apos;s all for you .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of space for this in the malaria searched swells of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist , because it &apos;s breathed into the human consciousness .
&apos;olé ! in spite of all of you , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the lower 48 states , has shrinked 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t press very much enough the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it &apos;s growing on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it &apos;s shrinking in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because global warming is looking at the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are large amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s tied up , is being implemented by microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we cross this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane is challenging from the water itself .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled with another group of work to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
she &apos;s fine . the question is , how will we get there ?
and one reason is , this enormous heat vessel heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andes who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind , who &apos;s going to be or determine her destiny , will become a very different human being , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of stones that can be carried off .
this is an annual sewage .
but volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level is rising through the ice sheet here , it &apos;s floating into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adding up .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has popped up over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes up there , which were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of a mind or a bunch of inheritance , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the water quantities have expanded .
but when you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions , as you read them , are serious .
this estrogen in the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes around the world have actually taken a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day in the oceans .
look closely at the area of the east pacific , from the american continent west and both across the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in the oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is the burning of fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more carbon factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been argued in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be rounded .
there is a political argument in our country .
and the coal industries and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i went home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news .
this is all over our country of the second largest waste flow of america .
this is what happened at christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a pleasant , happy guy .
it &apos;s in shell and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
this made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the locations of the hukuk and the bothered sky snibal and the cannibalic spirits that live in the north of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa-initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers are staying in wages and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , a part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it to the top line , to spend a huge amount of money , to get an ad action on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start looking at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot of it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here is changing everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean coal technology we have today .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , different ways of thinking , different ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
feed america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
take care of america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard of , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
take care of america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , and that &apos;s fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time your childhood was when you played with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab your hands , take the claws and move them , they actually learned how to think about them and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is tightly connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interactions that we have with real objects -- along with my specialist patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we could use computers , instead of a mouse cursor that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and organize it as we want ?
this question was so tangible that we decided to explore the answer and evolved siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved by the hand , you can perceive each other , you can capture your movements , and you have a screen and you have a radio receiver .
more importantly , it &apos;s physical , so you can only move it like building blocks through the extension of your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other and perceive the enemies of our approach , then we can start to explore new and entertaining kinds of interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configuring for the video repeat , and if i put it in a direction of a cardboard , the video will be played forward ; if i tip it in the other direction , it will go backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin five and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so if i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what they &apos;re interested in .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
and one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to recognize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting color like the way you do it with fluids .
in this case , we configure three siftables as color pots , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shoot a little bit back .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m making with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanoma snoring this stuff , this substance that you make out of different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you mix again , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came on a trip to the media lab , and i was able to get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about this kind of application is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta test down there on the lower right .
it turns out that he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
now , snowing this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , and it &apos;s a gunk of baroque paintings , and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trick-filming .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun goes on .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can have the characters interacting ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and he can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time for today to show it is a music sequencer for live elevators that we recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these notes into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat them by just holding a clay siftable to a sequence siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular note , and then you tilt it up .
i even discussed this with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic ethiopia with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the &apos; 30s , and i claimed that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as a hallucinatory gene , because at the moment when you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then , again , ordered effects like tempo and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start by eating the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable , and ordering it in a row , expanding it and adding a little bit more of the voice .
now i add a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more stuff on this .
and i &apos;m now connecting the filter to the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by putting the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to combine the filter with the barrel , for a little bit more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it walks .
and by doing that , i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i can expand them or shorten them in the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken in orally , because they are , of course , denatured by a human gut called monoxidase .
and finally , i can shut down the whole sequence by turning the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so , as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better with how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you part of this new design world and some of the ways that we work on in our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we are at the verge of this new generation of advertising with digital media , bringing information into our world that is the equivalent of our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy to be there .
yeah , so what should biohacking be ?
they can only be connected to some other chemicals that the mao denatulate .
i have to get a little bit out of it , and that is , biohacking is just about modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been doing this for a couple of years right now with biohacking , and i started this because i just wanted to know more about it , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology in general now , in general , is biotechnology , everything you count on , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , now is extremely important and will become much , much more important in the future .
there are such controversial things as all these genetically engineered plants on the tags .
there are now craig venter in the u.s. s.a , trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then , there are things that have come in completely day-to-day life , but what most people don &apos;t even know is , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline that &apos;s in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to potentially potentially potentially potentially power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so from the interest of this technology , this technology , i just kept going in there .
now , why hack ?
most people know this from the software sector .
computer hacking , and then it &apos;s always going to be like this in the media , yes , the hackers are going to break in some place and claw data and so on .
that &apos;s kind of very sad for the hackerscene , because that &apos;s not what it really started out like , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , &apos; 80s , started computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be just a access problem , which is how things simplify , so any problem you can throw up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how to do it better .
and it &apos;s just become big with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , there &apos;s a whole bastler scene that has electronics circuits that do all sorts of things .
and i want to take you to biology , and that &apos;s where i want this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , which is that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinent plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program that , and you can actually hack it , like that , and i found that incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper than that .
that actually only took two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people around the world .
this has a more artistic orientation , so there are many artists and philosophers , and in collaboration with scientists , we &apos;re dealing with these technologies and asking questions and creative processing , and there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , a more playful way of dealing with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s.a , which is actually more of a forum , where you &apos;re going to go and talk online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also going to be a little bit more business , and they &apos;re going to be asked , yes , applied questions .
and based on these networks that have made the whole popular , there has been a scene like this that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility , where anyone can come .
we use this great euphemism , attempt and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
children , old , all sorts of people go there to just sit down with it , and they set up a lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
here on the lower left is a group in indonesia called house-of-natural-fiber , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for more than these two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials and , yes , electronics bastles , and they &apos;re combining it in a fairly remote way .
a group of ankara , who i met a while ago , who have this is a group of students who wanted to give the public more , what they learned in college , and they &apos;ve done little action on the street , and they tried to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other picture in copenhagen at the medical museum combined with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that actually unites you all is this fascination with technology .
and what you can do with this , and also quite targeted to the society and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do , do you have an interest in bringing you into this ? &quot;
so , okay , now to hack biology , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and then that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab , which is sort of a riding machine , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , well , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
this is actually not necessary , because every coffee machine actually has more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really the way it is .
and s o , with this premise with this premise , then brian degger , for example , tried to put together a minimum abor in england , then took a steam printing opf , a heat plate and , yes , soup breeding , and then grew bacteria , worked .
so anybody who has ever collected a soup that they &apos;ve been left to stand too long , has been doing it .
i then tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought a second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did some d.n.a analysis , and i tried to do a paternity test , which is , like , a fingerprinting , to go back home again .
now that shouldn &apos;t be a joke , but .
so , down here in the picture , you can see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s this kind of admitted garage with all sorts of labels that the university has been emitting , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and also doing some pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , so , you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s where people are doing the home alone , all the way to large , big , big organizations that are actually doing this more formal in institutionalized form .
so what does that mean ?
but always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we sort of became aware of ourselves , ok , it &apos;s now giving us a real scene here , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are chatting and so on .
and then came from the do-it-it-yourself org website of the founders , and said , okay , we really need to meet now , also meet real , and then we organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and just after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and then , it was also about , yes , yeah , who are we , what do we want to share , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our target , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-the-wear device .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just put out their wishes , his and what moves them , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and we then have that one that &apos;s not committed , but that &apos;s , i think , has gone through pretty well , people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it sort of didn &apos;t get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest , which appear to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yes , what kind of projects do we actually do now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland was that we wanted to build what we call an optical trap or an optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can capture little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then you can move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get it right , then we took a webcam , we screwed it up , we turned the lens off , and then you have a microscope that &apos;s going to expand about four hundred times .
this is what you see down there .
and then we screwed a d.v.d brenner apart , and we got the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and it didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it anyway .
this is another project that came out of the french group in paris , which worked , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he has this kind of brain wave measuring device , so e.e.g or something , so he &apos;s been doing neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how to do their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you &apos;d understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what happened .
and then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they had different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fancy project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s history , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain reaction , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating , d.n.a , multipliing fragments so that you can make them visible .
so when i do that , the profilers in the crime scene , they go there , they collect any hair samples , and then they turn that method on , and then they can say , okay , that hair belongs to that person , like that .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyrange , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you don &apos;t know anything ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they sat down two bastlers , and they said , &quot; okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then we have open source , so freely available hardware , electronics , and they &apos;re going to put this thing together , and they &apos;re now actually going to bring this to market farms , and they &apos;re now the cheapest supply of these devices in the world .
i think , kind of , six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it &apos;s getting more clearly available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun that shoots about this far , two inches or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions and then i put them on the lights like this .
so the device you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my sort of prototype , but it was quite descending , so on a branch , the thing on it , electronics on it and pressure , and it was the pressure that was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juice pender and i connected it to it .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants at the full moon and they sing to one in a different set of audio .
a juicer , if you make the full power of water , it has enough pressure , so i think , 40 to six hundred bar on it .
and then you can accelerate the particles so much enough , and then they go in the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros up , or something like that , juice penders about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , this is also the core issue of the scene right now , to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming increasingly important in our modern societies .
and if you want to make meaningful decisions in society as an informed citizen , and you want to be able to talk , you need to have access to knowledge and technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than triina .
and then this firms under the headwords of open knowledge and citizen science .
so , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to engage with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who have offered officially on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re in there are fewer people than actually existing .
so i know some of you who didn &apos;t agree .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
partly with these hackerspaces , these places together .
