you know , one of the great sensitivity of traveling and one of the joys of ethnography is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the countless cultures of the world form a net of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important to the good of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult condition of the innate , they look at them as orginial and colorful , but somehow they confine to the past , while the real world , our world , is moving forward .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousand-thinking has only begun .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-100th funding .
and this has now become a gigantic network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that have been represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to stop ourselves in the same way , and then we &apos;re very well connected , so that we can also get more people involved .
and i would invite each time to deal with this and try something .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that in 300 years , you &apos;re not going to remember the 20th century , not for your wars or technical innovations , but rather , an era in which we were against and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work for people ?
this is a question that i &apos;m very moved as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and most of all , in the field of user experience .
it &apos;s about how you encounter people in interactive media , so they can use these interactive media and create a most satisfying experience .
because i think that the interactive media in us addresses archaic , cognitive models , thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can just bring them back through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high technology that you &apos;re facing is actually going to bring you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
what are archaic models now ?
i wrote down four words once , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
and these archaic models are that we have a principle of natural relationship to virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual .
all cultures have been involved again and again in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a minute , and i &apos;m going to prove to you by attempt that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very imagery , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the linearity of the linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we now feel the linearity as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about the virtuality that is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove this to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer them immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and this is happening right now .
they go through this house in the spirit , so they live in , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and that &apos;s where we &apos;re trying to get into the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do it all the time .
and that capacity to virtualize the virtual reality that people needed in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photographics .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory played off .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen less to sioux than they did bow and arrow tasks when the americans stopped being americans when they were working on horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they were just passed on knowledge .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s also so strong in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , human beings were also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;m going to talk about .
the key tool of information mediation has been stories ever since .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge watchmen , were designed to preserve knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very much attached to stories .
the author of the story story story animal , jonathan gotchall , we still combine a thousand hours a year with the receptions of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life recepting stories by the age of the grandma .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
it goes far further back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the field of interactive media , what &apos;s particularly impressive is that we &apos;ve been anchoring by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i &apos;ve brought you an example of the nootka indian north american tribe .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from the island to the island to get food .
and they did this with something called lead-map .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in this , of australian native peoples .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-maps , but they &apos;ve used these genital songlines , or sponge paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be depicted over songs .
where the language was subordinated by the subordinated rang .
that is , you navigated over sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have been the geology , which is the topography of a region , and that , of course , allowed you to defragment these songs and put them together and go back to the left , to the right , and also to go back to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing anymore to get from the top of a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i do a lot of research recently , you will see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
this is the genesis machine age .
we moved in what we call the avian age before .
what happened is the machine age , and what happened is the book , and what happened is the photographics .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
the book and the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have a piece of god to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the picture , so not television , the internet and so on , what we call mass media today , have fossilized the mass media of our memories and uplifted our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnicity , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and diverse as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what is the impact on our thinking and our memory ?
then these are the fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they have been more and more overstated over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we no longer produce ourselves .
we have an abstract language abstract .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures anymore , not in images , but we &apos;re coding it to you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetans if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the storytelling .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested with the storytelling as an information negotiation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vow age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very space-y , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , they bring us back these possibilities to rediscover our skills .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit briefly .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles of chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and it wasn &apos;t until i came to lhasa that i saw the face behind the statistics of which you hear : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered in the cultural revolution by the cades .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , this is a concept that allows us to recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is to recombine our affinity to virtualization , which is to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is reviewed .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
as crazy as that may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving into not existential , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambient , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond to a human being intelligent .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work by michael burk , ann-kathrin crence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so that you can have a conversation with the two of them about the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed again .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the follower of the panel lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with any console in their hands .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s designed to think that i explore the outside world , so that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut down so much .
and then you can explain that a lot better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is that i discover a city by looking at where positive or negative was twittered in places .
that meant that he was killed immediately during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and so i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is a little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocabulary age , and that have been a little bit disrupted in the machine age , that the things that we call the cyber age can be reactivated , and that in this way , we can get complex , technological , new products , not actually into the future , but actually come back to us to our roots .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very pleased to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked , is this sack there going to be a talking sack and mine instead of talking ?
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness , which brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just doing it a little bit of curiosity .
yes , children are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers as well .
i &apos;m a designer of house , so i &apos;m involved , of course , in the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change the way we think , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to repel it and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a designer .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often thrown into this n research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the designers begin to engage with such natural , archaic shapes of communication , interaction and so on .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and in front of the background , i &apos;ve been in the natural user interface design , so the next generation of human computers in the relationship of the human computer with how our tools or how the computer changes from the computational sukcccessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at , when is what &apos;s natural or intuitive ?
maybe again , i have to look back at this .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , just briefly represented here , we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from the modern into the computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
in the beginning , the tribal society through language .
that is , you found yourself talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , you could move into the same cave , you could form cities , you could create villages , you could sort of create tribal society .
but the primary medium was language , something very natural , something very alive .
he was smuggled into prison at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no toddler can talk about nature , but we learn it sucessively and relentlessly .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you start manifest the living language in the form of writing , which is what fluid and life is , i start and i &apos;m carving it in stone , and i &apos;m manipulating it .
so , depending on how i &apos;m carving and when i &apos;m carving , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a kind of living thing .
but then sukcessive just moved this script as a primary medium .
then the next generation that we &apos;re actually living in today is primarily .
this is the scripted by pressure and print with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just as a monkey , where adel , klerus and others have said , you &apos;re really crazy when people start reading , they want to talk afterwards , and of course it &apos;s totally fatal .
and now we get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now , that we &apos;re going to participate in this .
of course , this completely confuses us , because on the one hand we see the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
the sister , who did this brave , was brought into an education camp .
with total transparency , which is the new thinking , which is banging on old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagna of horse meat and no beef or other phenomena , which is , i just want to screw that up and i want to do it .
and these two worlds are banging together , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at a global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the issue of ecology is a global issue .
not when i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work .
that is , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , possibly intuitive , but also the total transparency .
as you knew back in the village , who has what with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile ending devices at the global level .
whether it &apos;s that we know how to accumulate globally and accumulate faster and faster and better .
one day , they came out of a wristline maos , and she had to go into a hard job camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
now , in the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , which does it mean , what &apos;s natural for us , what is it that we might have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because people often come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that everyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and of course , when is a little intuitive , and how can i influence it as a designer and shape it so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and easy to use .
you know , you &apos;re busy , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and this is , of course , where you start and look at it and say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside the inner self .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it actually mean , of course , intuitively and how do our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetans can be intractable , but the human mind is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs used to say you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look at the detail , if i want to do something that &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive , which means at the core .
and you can see already that you have a seven senses , most of us think we only have five , and now even seven of them have already recognized , and certainly in the near future , there &apos;s the next , eighth sense , and also the extension of ourselves .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
to say , what &apos;s information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means to be en detail .
but i have to understand , in the core , when is information going to become information , when is information , and from information , again , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , handable .
and of course , also , how design affects perception .
we see this when i &apos;m designing things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotony or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see where is salt and pepper in there .
and if i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll first think about where &apos;s in the right .
and just to be intuitive on the left , and then hopefully that there &apos;s no sugar in there that just gives you the salt .
but also our perception of ourselves , how it &apos;s fooling us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , who said great anthropologist before she died , that her greatest fear is that as we move towards a thread , shape-free , generic view , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced to a tight mindset , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
so it &apos;s circle .
a second circle is already beginning to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and then if i put another halboval in there , all of a sudden we don &apos;t just see one more unit , which is circle , circle and circle , and yet we see a unit , we don &apos;t see any more three parts , a circle , a circle , another .
it &apos;s called gestalt law , or gestalt psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
the design law of the nearby , the design laws of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget about it .
but this is a crucially important component , if you want to make things intuitive as well as possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting about vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the front of the eyes , and now you think we &apos;re looking forward to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
that is , they projure a assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that means we &apos;re just projiming our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our sehemachine , to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projured what you want to see .
and that &apos;s where it comes back , and then it comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and it says , you know , you &apos;re really looking back up and you &apos;re sure that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what kind of millisecond areas of things happen .
the neolithic revolution , which brought us agriculture , and at that moment gave us the cult of the seeds , which was the poetry of the shame , replaced by the prose of priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- took place 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who any of you know this picture .
that &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
anybody see something ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw this , that there &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you see it all the time .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled them now , that not anymore you can see a pattern in there , but i &apos;ve conditioned them within a very short period of time , to see this dog again and again in this mutilated picture .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projeiving forward , that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , really , really exciting processes , which in this , yes , gray isn &apos;t , but it &apos;s just going to happen here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of take me out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well wait times , where i &apos;m busy doing someone with three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he has to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly wait times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does fifty milliseconds take ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period that you fall in love with .
that means , pay attention , if you know now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for like a long time , because i don &apos;t take any election for what can happen in the first place .
and six milliseconds , a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression happens at a rapid speed , as we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the meaning of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , as we look at what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of restoring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it that way .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily with the subject of the human object relationship .
so how does a human being deal with certain things .
there are , in fact , the practical functions , the formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions where i know exactly where i need to grasp .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does someone give for such a small daylight , where they don &apos;t fit in , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be on the symbolic level , at the level of meaning , which we &apos;re dealing with , of course , as designers .
back to my actual theme , natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , behind it , is usability .
usability always means , how can i get a certain goal , or how can a user , in a certain context of use , be able to achieve effective , efficient and satisfying .
that &apos;s how it says the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to be able to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance that all humans and gardens need to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible to use ?
can i serve it directly or need it to be a handbook , or i need to have a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is .
i &apos;m just doing it differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better to handle .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at partly the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive or not based on the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not only since apple a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i want to use technological devices to people .
why ?
because we usually are through this new kind of usability , which is the natural user ínterfaces , for example , five times faster on the average of our goal .
you have to imagine that , if you do something of the classic softress , you take five hours and with this new kind of natural software , you just take one more hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you can probably go home for four hours , but your employer , or someone , is going to fall into the way they &apos;re dealing with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a similar increase in performance for us to get certain things .
so if we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have been working with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so no longer zeros and ones or kryptic codes , but a metaphor .
it made it much more user-friendly , but it &apos;s much better , of course .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a designer , i &apos;m much more likely to form the behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , i &apos;m becoming increasingly unimportant for success , and the usability is becoming an application .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and during the 50th years of the establishment of our regime , they were forced to move in settlements .
and if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and not by mouse and cursor , i have to control things even faster and even more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point where are things getting more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish and look again at my little friend here , which means , from the point of view of cognitive sergonomy , when is it really intuitive ?
and this is something that &apos;s intuitive for us humans , when i have to think very little about it .
so it seems that he doesn &apos;t like to think , but it &apos;s very easy to do .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that is , if we look at the fact that we can transmit existing models from one to another , like the metaphor , then i can use that as a designer .
that is , i can just transmit an intuitive , human action model to a software , and make the software much more user-friendly .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act scheme of human beings , and now i &apos;ve already revealed it ?
the grandfather of this old man refused to refuse .
this is what &apos;s called the osit-model .
each of us uses and osit is an acronym , and it stands for orientation , select , inform , transcend .
each of you does this all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself becomes about 50 to 70 thousand times more of us ever after activity , so in your sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s then being punished less often than it is on day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer it to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , a action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of usage than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i orient as an overview , select as a choice , inform in the trap , it &apos;s big for me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transfer , i can also throw it somewhere or send it or buy somebody and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was afraid of his life took all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
overview : now i kind of interact with the object , can zoom out , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , and now i can filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things about chocolate , for example .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than if you can get over hierarchical websites or other mechanisms like that .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to close , a and again , to give the clue , and designers also need to think differently , to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you take care of what kind of divorce you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play more or less in the pottery , the more , so to speak , your curiosity is , of course , woke up .
and curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to be their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically doing this whole environmental discussion , world demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , you give plus-size , you give off about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide through the world &apos;s ocean as amorph mollusks .
the glides of their sled were originally made of fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take phosphorus and abandon it .
and the amazing thing is that we &apos;re dealing with something that &apos;s actually self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because they &apos;re all talking about energy , but no one &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and now , through phosphorus mining around the world , a lot more uranium is being used in the environment than in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we pick up .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the storm blowing .
so , for example , shine the environment , drive less car .
shrimp the environment , make less waste .
shrimp the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way i would say , shoot your child , just hit it three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think of the weights to the bathroom , all of our earth is sooner or later going to be a cemetery .
that &apos;s why we think of the weighs to weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he smashed out , dropped his pants out of the sea fur , and defecated his hand , and when the feces started to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re growing maize and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms per hectare , or at the square meter .
that means we lose about five times more in the ground than we &apos;re being reformed .
of course , we can look at the waste problem first .
and it &apos;s all packaging or content .
for example , in openbach , the twenty percent of the waste is wind in the house .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
it &apos;s kind of all in the forewind phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand diapers .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalian knife , and when it was completely frozen , he surprised a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these windmills ?
here &apos;s one of the evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is released in the pigs over the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yes .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s what &apos;s going on , right ?
he included the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton , and improvised a sledder , put a different dog on and descended over the ice sheets with the color knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you deny it to people , if you say that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;ll get refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , they say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yes .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one may termites , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means the ants weigh much more than we do .
that &apos;s how you can do something from nothing .
and because they work much harder physically than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they correspond to their weight , in energy consumption a little bit of 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you can see how far away we are , what we really wanted to do and could do , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , revelation has a program , up to 20 , you want to be climaneutral , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be grim than trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the innate people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily , not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem in trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
you &apos;ve heard about that a little bit of overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be grim as trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most striking bio-farming , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back to circles .
and so we &apos;re too many .
just about that .
the canadian government released the inuit in april , 1999 , complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty on earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-building , no bioland , no natural etch progression , and as they all say , allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , it &apos;s the highest thing not to be there , yes ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nuclear missions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was highly rejected , it happened with the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we &apos;re doing agriculture in brazil from where we &apos;re retreating the nutrients .
right now , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a nachttopf is still a honey pot , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has always taken over , but has never given back to the farmers .
and the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to continue to get their nutrients further and further away .
it &apos;s an independent area . you control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to get civilization over the age of five , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you expect the food to stay until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat them , not to the nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to get the nutrients back .
what &apos;s really nice about this is , if you do this , you make agriculture , you make biogas , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , so that a farmer can produce about a thousand and a half dollars , and you wait for the plant to grow chickens and pig and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate goes back in the favelas by over ninety percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recovery with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be less bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this , through the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that means that the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 to 50 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been saboted .
you could just throw a liter of alkills so easily , and then the facility would be ruined over the years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people to be less bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not away at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something out of it , write up , in germany , the best way to do it is by all the sewage facilities in france .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in offenbach , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankfurter facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that in fact , phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve spent over three years in holland now .
the dutch government explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus incidents .
there &apos;s a bunch of orphanages in opec .
these are six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil reserves .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil by other energy carriers .
but the phosphorus will not be replaced .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , to ask what the right thing is .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
of course , in holland , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you annoyed them , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really , really , yes ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
there we go .
it &apos;s not quite scientific , because we don &apos;t know how much of it is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , yes ?
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic eventually is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better and restore it with it and lose all the materials for cycles in the burn facility , but first to ask , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficient .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with revelation taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
this is efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that means all that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing it away is exactly the right thing , right ?
at any point where you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in the way we think about north .
there &apos;s every footprint that &apos;s disadvantaged .
156 nations send our television channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the floor .
because the soil will die off , and the wind will wash away , and the water will wash away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains longer in the meadow .
so , it &apos;s about creating a large footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do with your wife ?
what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , &quot; sorry , sir , yes ? &quot;
now this is the minimum .
so not saving , saving , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust , if you look in italy , like the people in the high bow are smashing out of the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s the shape of refour behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature , liquid .
no biologist , for example , would claim that 50 percent or more of all species are just before the extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is hardly what we know as the most optimistic scenario in the area of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re going to take a series of trips to the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders that they are blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one after the other , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in a variety of ways that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not all to be composable , of course .
a tv machine or a washing machine , they just use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that are swallowing , like shoe , like brake bellies , like cars , that have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we &apos;re realizing what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so it &apos;s not like detox .
not toxic in there .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of an exception just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where they can either be locally or removed with vast amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes you can put on the pedestrian pile and the rubber can go into biological circles , right ?
all of this is composable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why you &apos;re helping , you &apos;re asking people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve been changing the chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they really stick .
so , help me a little bit .
we see lots and lots of gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can seamlessly and continuously rearrange in any way .
but it goes .
yes .
what &apos;s just been represented .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now that , if they &apos;re broken , they can go into biological circles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , to go back to the loop .
again , in any store , you can get things back .
if you come up with that , yes ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are or how big the images are .
do you remember the windle again ?
if the garbage is right now .
all over the place , these diapers are around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
there &apos;s deponies in the front , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside , that you can go back to cellulosic base , you can plant with a baby in israel or in tunisia hundreds of fifty trees .
yes ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is a scan of the library of congress , for example , and it &apos;s in a region of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
now , a lot of people are working there , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra commitment to cradle to cradle , where everyone can join .
so not saving , saving , avoiding , reducing , not guilt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can confine the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment , and it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the interpreter work .
music as a language .
in the description of my speech , i &apos;m an interpreter , a translator , which is in english language .
interprets are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and word bias , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
in fact , translating from german into english , it can require more knowledge , because when you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s alien to layman , what we musicians do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes .
you think that the composer in the notes has written everything that he &apos;s imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even seemingly penible , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description , the smell of the flowers is not smell , the degree of the green , not to hear the sawdust of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpret has to translate these unprecedented anxiety of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today i want to translate what else i &apos;m translating into musical language , which is to interpret , again , to a verbal language .
so basically a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equivalent for me to translation of translation .
so the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read grades and press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
that &apos;s just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the meaning of the letters is only when you can see the language .
so you need music language for learning at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a graduation , whether you learn it for the abuse , just passively understand it , or you can talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s language .
the interpreter work starts in the same way as a theater director .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you first explore the backgrounds of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the journals , the notes , or the words , the composer &apos;s thoughts .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you compare comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texts and not a picture .
the reasons to write it .
how did he feel ?
what were his circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in that .
you think into that time by looking at , for example , contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , you also have a rich knowledge about the composer you play more and more composer , and it makes you easier to think and feel in it .
the composer becomes more and more of the friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece is going to be more and more to my personal cause of playing it .
now , since the notes are anything but an accurate record of the composer &apos;s cause , but only a scaffolding , i now turn this scaffold to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
i then say , with my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what you could mean for him today .
every note , every phrase makes sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own right now .
it has to be consistent for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working out for as long in advance as i &apos;ve been reinventing .
how to reexperience a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , get up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same thing over and over again .
i &apos;ve gotten older again a day that changes seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i take the breath of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me , and all of this also affects my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s wonderful , though , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , fair conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and in a moment , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have experienced how the music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play any more like that moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i do in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and therefore on my palette of music sounds , i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , emotions and feelings than i am today .
i &apos;m sure i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is an issue from the guardian .
it was on a piano class for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jbarrigen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and long-term professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was a lot too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was already on his classes at my school .
i was seven years old when i went back to one of his classes , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late piece .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballade was for me .
it &apos;s such a contracted part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was shooting , and he said , &quot; right ? &quot;
that has to be the difference in age .
because to me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was over the &apos; 60s .
well , with 17 , you still have dreams , but no significant memories .
i play this piece every few years , and it has changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because over and over again , i read something new .
an example of this from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis x-times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the sailors in a different way , as he saw , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the sea eroses .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
i &apos;m also older than chopin at the age of two and 30 when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he lived only nine years .
and it &apos;s important for me to look back at the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep twins , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died already .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as the spoken language to do it .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk one word .
you learn to find the sounds of the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
if all the fingers in time and right as it stands in the notes , then sounds come out that sound like music .
if that happens freely , the student gets the next bit .
there &apos;s hardly any talk about interpretation in the beginning class .
all right , then there &apos;s presto on the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and leisure , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you translate these anguish , it still remains a little technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false display with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added more content to it .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that in order to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing , because he didn &apos;t pretend the parents , won &apos;t do it by himself .
it &apos;s like learning to speak .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and the idea of music , and then to get it through another possibility , through an instrument , to sound .
people who &apos;ve never been singing have never felt immediately with their own body , what it &apos;s like to make a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the constant narrative today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music for yourself if it gets bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is made when you &apos;re constantly sucked with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
it &apos;s not too late to start in both of them to see if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles , the vocal corrections , right .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they were told that they were undiving .
and i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
have you ever gotten a second or third opinion , as you say now , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
what i would regret , though , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a selfish candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand any of the classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really raises these ideas to create these constraints for the available place on the screen .
and i say , but i &apos;m sure you can tell whether you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if i can taste it because i can &apos;t cook .
so , you don &apos;t get rid of food , just because you can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to rely on classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether you like it or not .
whether the music is too peppered or too sweet to them .
say what you feel .
over time , you get claims , and you want a little more spices there , or you even taste fine differences .
now , why am i challenging from my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art you never look at has no force to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef , lovely cooked , needs to be eaten and not just looked at or traded recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice sound wallpaper .
if in an environment where the adults make active music , or at least listen to active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , rather than a red flower now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano at the time as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had had the sonic possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the sounds that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a barockes cembalo can &apos;t do .
it &apos;s also known by beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected from then on as unplayable .
so the composers depend on us are the interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so that you can hear what you &apos;ve just imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to contribute to this area as well .
and also , what you would think in the mind today .
or what i &apos;m going to do today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what neither is it ?
have you ever been envy ?
and what did that feel like ?
shit .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v w piesel and i &apos;m wrong , this feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s.a .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have a big car for ?
i mean , it loses half of its value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than i did .
why do i have to afford a little car ?
and then i immediately think , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to get those unpleasant feelings like neither to disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to talk to you today about this mechanism or something that &apos;s unconsciously familiar to you .
and they &apos;re sitting up on the top of the drivable picture of nasa .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lie as you may have heard when people say no one &apos;s intention to build a wall .
and then picks up so that he can shut them down .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to verify that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with fooling themselves .
you need this lie to get a lie of life to get a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , examine or get them to fall .
they need time .
now let &apos;s take something else out .
from that time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso : just wait .
they get more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is , and how much time you need to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a broken relationship to the lie .
the artist is sharing something with you , and most of all , this lady , what she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist gives you a little bit of a portrait that you &apos;re only familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then that unpleasant feeling disappears , because it may not look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and not just in art , in the folk , in the mythology , it comes back in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility is from this true place , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes from this true place .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do under politically correctness , again and again .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us deception , without us being able to live on .
we have not only in art , in folk poetry , but in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies together .
and there &apos;s this story about the woman of the bischop of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the man should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , &quot; that &apos;s not true what charles wrote . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , we need to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something about it if it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without this lie .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural review , of something as an organism that exists to us , a rock like a rock , and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student in washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is resolving and what the traces that it leaves that lead to something else than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she particularly likes him because he has a propensity to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft &apos;s research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , every time a human being in a moral judiciary uses the word because , we should try to replace it by the word even though .
do that once and then experience the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the excitement .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about fireflies .
they &apos;re interested in fireflies .
but there are no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he is signing up .
and on top of that , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and enjoy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better when we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others create when they &apos;re just laying fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this reference to the fact that in the inside of the bub , he already knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that out loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps right away without you being able to do something about it , and the things you know to look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
so we just get these words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know when we say that , the social relations are very delicate .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and have this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that should work .
so i want to share with you what we found at my institute .
after which logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious , that it &apos;s valid to spread outward .
i want to present to you two , maybe three examples as well .
the first example assumes what many of you know and some of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what &apos;s the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not congestive , material nature .
and if you have people who have the strong belief that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as if the soul is such a mental framework about them , not matter , they &apos;re just meat and blood , something that &apos;s kind of stone , to the earth , forgettable , unimportant , yes , dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and from this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima is called in latin , the lufthththerness .
and then , when this air thumb comes over humans , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , yes , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is supposed to be present to our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of you , then you understand the logic that we experience this happiness of being able to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you still know from school three phrases .
now this is a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer visions algorithms have stuck these pictures together so that they can correspond to the real space where these images that were all made near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and they see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all related to each other in spatially .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie so that you can just get this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences occur .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted it here in particular .
a third sentence that comes up immediately in people who have a strong sense of soul .
they say who doesn &apos;t have a soul , which is dead , and can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and this is where you feel it .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk , to the expression .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can claim everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the chancer is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t say anything about what &apos;s going on .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can claim everything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so if klaus says there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately , you can make something out of it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences and pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assured .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic that it simply uses , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like it has something to do with it , we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , the photosynthetic technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue these things on different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daytime newspapers .
you have to have another philosophical issue , a permanent burning from philosophy .
this has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar who was called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel was named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same thing in the middle between two big hairs , he &apos;s starving .
we had to worry about lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
so the natural things are presented .
same big forces with opposite signs resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
it &apos;s only if you take another example , so if you make a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
he automatically walks to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , you also quickly feel that there must be such a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and sometimes wolf singer says there &apos;s no willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who only happened in the computer with images of flickr , and just give notre dame in flickr , and they get images of men in t-shirts and on the university camps , and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now we can make the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day , you &apos;ll find that in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no willingness , can &apos;t be drawn to responsibility for his actions and claims , and therefore it &apos;s inadequate .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove that there &apos;s such a thing as willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of forward is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
for example , practice this once you meet a human being that you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr pictures , and they &apos;re all spatially related to each other in this way .
you can &apos;t call it that , then , again , a little bit of politically incorrect .
you say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one where , of course , there are such predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and you &apos;ve got a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making it clear that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictions , the man is happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he put them on a trail that he doesn &apos;t stop on himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the way of shifting the burden of evidence , they experience the magnificence of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a way to feel that triple in other people , you do , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember your self-lies that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention her .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here of this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea to you .
i have to say , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to try to introduce you .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably a part of the two nice girls are still there , and i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been fooling for this bad green image , because i &apos;ve already started to study machine construction in karlsruh , technical college , i think , today it &apos;s called kit .
and then it hit me to berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and that didn &apos;t exist in cardboard quiet .
you know , i &apos;ve never believed that i &apos;m ultimately going to work at microsoft .
there was leopoldshafen , the core research facility .
they were all called kfa , and the jewish one was called kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power facilities .
but this is a doofes like solar pendulum that comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy collective of engineering .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry fell , you couldn &apos;t use the word because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in crossing mountain in the majority yard , where you suspect the evil .
the place of terrorism , but it was called white tronics and wind and solar power , and that &apos;s where i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what was said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked for 11 years in the collective , which was grassroots democratic .
we were 20 people .
if one didn &apos;t say no , the vetoprinzip was completely crumbling , and i &apos;ve been struggling for 10 years , whether i was wasting my great engineering study , maybe really , to a devastating thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve pushed the money out to the window in your child .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into the phase , and it was like this , and it was a picture that i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marks were still , you know , basic wage , unfortunate in the collective , whether it really should be that great .
and i stopped it up to six and a half , and then we got together with friends , i became the co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with spin-off cells .
a huge success story , but again , we have the problem of a growing company , and we then have two-thousand-six , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next issue of the future , which is , i think , and our behavior , it &apos;s the same crazy again , and it &apos;s going to start by saying , what &apos;s the squeeze , that &apos;s not going to happen , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce to you now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything from the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we just started to ask a relatively simple crazy story , where could you use a memory meaningfully today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a five-ten percent renewables today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you build more wind power together , the system begins to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adleryard .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i will find some of the odds .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we already have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculate that was two-thousand-2006 , started the first contacts with the island , but just calculate it .
how big a battery would have to be to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go on a slide again .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power is built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the world &apos;s energy hunger that &apos;s happening is being wiped out with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s going fast .
you put this kind of box .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the process , three of these are always waited , two are always waited .
yes , this is what a load looks like down there .
we also got very precise data .
and the wind conditioning , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system , which can only feed in small quantities here .
our goal was to say , okay .
this is the one that &apos;s going to be backup and the wind , and the sun is going to use the load so that they can map the larger percentage .
somewhere here are a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , which is energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
that is , at that moment , you have to make sure that renewables can take over the whole grid .
you can only , of course , if you &apos;re manned here in any way .
no one in the world has done this yet .
there &apos;s a little style , so you can also use your shaper in the car over a little judge .
people always ask me , what do you actually do in adlershof ?
that &apos;s it .
but if you want to put together several of these interfaces , and they &apos;re supposed to build a net , that &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to 70-odd percent renewable , and then this rest remains here , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , and it &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work either that you do it from batteries .
that will definitely be an energy carrier , who then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you or sh , that will be .
this is actually a poster by notre dame that was recorded right .
you have to go to a season memory and match winter summer and not just tag night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stink electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get there ?
and then did a whole bunch of simulations .
and wind and sun and the burden were simulated and came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that if you look at the conventional system , it takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , you get out about four and a half cents per kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
now , if it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system , if the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social shepherds .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild the society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is , in a way , the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re doing 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which meant the electric company on the island , which we love .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin where we can sort of map the electrical proportions of the island at one to three .
that is , we looked for the first time to find the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment , and we &apos;re now collecting data from all of it -- from the whole collective memory of what the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it &apos;s been developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt power , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we &apos;ve sort of gotten out of the simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we &apos;ve also brought one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , into the hall , to actually bring the full dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the back there , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s the whole requests that we simulate the web .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the net .
and you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
and of course , we all share the same adaptations .
it &apos;s a means in which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all these pictures are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , we see the diesel , again , all the individual aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousand-nine was we &apos;ve finished the hall , until today , two-thousand-12 , almost everything that was here between the single system of electronics , to develop software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define as a company that &apos;s just between the theme of the battery and the theme of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of this island is that , in fact , you can take away everything from the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going back and forth right now , energy turn , how to go , for example , on the island , we have for about five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electrical mobility on the island , to ask around , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you won &apos;t be able to do that without memory .
they get a model that comes from all over the earth .
you can do it through the n smart-grid , you can excavate the nets , yes , you should do it anyway , listen to the percentage , but you will never be able to completely dispense the memory .
and that &apos;s the little bit of the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just made up of noisy rotating masses of great power plants , where the wave is always all around europe .
we look in this web , we see the 50 hertz , and if it &apos;s going to be ninety-nine , comma nine hertz , we &apos;re going to catch a couple of valves , then we &apos;ll go back to a little bit of a steam , and we &apos;ll come back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , it &apos;s incredibly busy .
if you tear it down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers to virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds out with this big battery .
you can see the tremendous speeds that are there .
and the message now is , we have to get rid of these rotating masses , if we &apos;re sort of going to get our goals 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run simply means the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , growing the coal power plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gastorbines , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also putting electrochemical memory on the net .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now .
and this is something that grows through the complexity that people use with , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger for the application .
and then , to this purpose , people always come and look at our subject on the line , sort of our own ingenuity .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take a piece of the future away ?
and a lot of discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
if you can &apos;t , it &apos;s insane , it &apos;s child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated it all , never calculates .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceivable .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity for electrochemical stores around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the beauty is that i &apos;ve experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed with metadata , which one other person has entered .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects to get 10 megawatt battery to the german net .
this will happen in the next april .
so you also realize that there &apos;s a change going on and from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autarque system .
so far in discussions , these insultants , they make autark , they have their own little web , they have nothing to do with our compound .
the question is very simple , if you make yourself completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy returns that are drilled out somewhere in the world and brought to you , you &apos;re an island .
then you just use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where you live .
and this is a little bit our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle-to-cradle that they said they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing , and as far as we get , the talk of premium cola is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and have a vision .
if someone has been tired of doing all of these sacred and communicated who you are , then my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly enriched with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverses that use photos of other people , and make a kind of cross-model social experience with the use of other people .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , went through the streets one day at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos; article , a book was later filmed on , with robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contractor who studied at the juilliard conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically completed by his paranoid schizophrenia early .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend you all to read steves &apos; book , or look at the movie , so that you can understand not only the wonderful interconnectedness that was created between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was the instrument , when this pun is allowed , the mithalf , nathaniel , the path from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration by beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and came behind the stage to imagine me .
he spoke in a very hot and gregarious sound about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of this because of the tacky passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the byproduct of all of these are the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that not only were preserved by overflights or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
now , as a result , he &apos;s particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , walking around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture source of his own mind .
and in just like a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first class in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this insane flatter in his eyes , and it was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not so much , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his conditions , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about scale and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardening .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i realized that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniel &apos;s manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
and as with a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some clips of violin concerts after hearing , and then asked me to play them at the end : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pecca salons .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge about music , but he also connected him to a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i know only from my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , from this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a lover , educated , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i get them right ? their software enabled , at a certain point , in the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically connected ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
this is why we make music : so that we can create something that is deep inside of all of us , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches us all , and moves , inspired and united .
in the case of nathaniel , the music brought him back into a community of friends .
the redemption power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and paid attention to him .
and i will always play with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen to the cellist unfortunate .
yes . it doesn &apos;t make anything else but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , it was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , rich , a best-selling fish on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , an inflection point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem for our chefs has become . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten forests bare .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tunas , the healing buts , the salmon , swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so probably or evil aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments against it . fishing facilities pollute the environment , most of you anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a food processing from 15 to one .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company trying to get it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call him don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the ocean that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that evening , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , don on .
i said , &quot; don , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to demand .
well , i was telephone with a couple of people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until finally i was telephone with the senior biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
let &apos;s call him don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed to food . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the manual , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-fair enjoyer and good person .
that &apos;s me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish because , i swear to god , who swallowed fish after this conversation for chicken .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i ate it first in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost glowing white color .
then the size of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , he &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef . at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what were basically wetlands .
they did that by depositing the land .
they built this complicated consequence of canals , and they put water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t do that , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental consciousness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they &apos;ve literally transformed the lever .
instead of pushing out the water , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- bark , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company completely reverse the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is flooded channels and these density , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we fought through the wetlands , and i cheat and sweat , and i have matsch up to my knees , and miguel gives us a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he picks up a rare glitaar .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then he goes , and he falls into more just the rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head got weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the morning .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so good ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
now , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-refreshing .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
later on the day , i was driving around this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;d ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
the moment it was like a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bow around the corner , and we offered the most incredible sight , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far can reach the eye .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you do your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief set of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , were more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private avian reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly is better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly due to maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success in the health of their predators .
a fish rising , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos shouldn &apos;t even be there before .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the soil is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and every night they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the strictly white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 kilometers to the farm and then fly back 240 kilometers at night ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an unprecedented condition for the human .
do you do that for the children ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it sucked . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this fun , coated taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned that to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin works like a sponge .
when people have freedom , every one of us is about themselves to do the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to look up unpurities . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any disputes . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish . a farm that measures its success at the success of its predators .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any imputes , he &apos;s undergoing tremendous , because the water that flows through that farm comes from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that takes all the things that rivers tend to lead with them today , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it &apos;s fighting through the system , and this is leaving clean water than it &apos;s coming in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals , not just a farm that measures its success in the health of their predators , but a farm that &apos;s literally a water supply facility , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it sinks in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because that love story , as romantic as it is , is also enlightening .
you could say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , it &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekmarkets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that make good food for the future , somebody stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey people , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in distribution , not overall production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it &apos;s been the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pest control in monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how awful can that be ? &quot;
that was the reason . it was the law . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call them what they are , a commercial in the field , a commercial that quickly catches ecological capital that allows this production to happen .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber today is threatened , not because of declining ingredients , but because of degrading resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this , i think , is so deep in our water supply that it would not come to mind .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in it , and it &apos;s never produced anything really good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what comes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
operations that are not worlds for themselves , operations that are restoring instead of using , operations that are growing extensively , instead of just intensive , farmers who are not just generators , but experts on relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to bring one thing to you today is that the total amount of data that we consume is larger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns emerge and we recognize trends that otherwise wouldn &apos;t be visible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical sterile diagram after age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see a different pattern that emerges .
and that &apos;s because in the middle section here , people are most active and they &apos;re most vulnerable over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that cycles and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , when we go on and care for age , we say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should worry about .
and if you look at research , it &apos;s particularly true with men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
what we have here are the cover images of every single &quot; sports illustrated &quot; that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to infants anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . not a big one .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on here where all the spending is mentioned in lance armstrong .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with the theme of biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to add the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look or you don &apos;t just search .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now , i want to take this idea a little bit further with something a little bit crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salad ressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaseite and reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
now i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i chose government , i realize that the wiki pediacatrics that are most accurate with this are time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediaseite .
that &apos;s only to recognize when you step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essions that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music sector .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can now jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time as if it &apos;s a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zooming technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump directly to a specific section .
and this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , all the internet trajectory in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in my trajectory in a particular time frame .
so this is what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been giving to this .
and i can sort of recover everything i &apos;ve seen before today .
and , once again , if i step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past . here , i looked for &apos; nepotistic &apos; , &apos; here to bing , or to live labs .
and from here , i can go into the site and call them back up .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the total picture bigger than the sum of the files .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information surplus .
we &apos;re talking about drowning in information .
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and by doing so , see patterns that would have been otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then this current data trap , maybe a new source of information will make sense .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , maybe we can even refuse it .
i &apos;ll stop that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a beloved portion of science fiction .
in my school days , i was driving to school with the bus , one hour per day .
and my nose always stuck in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts into other worlds , and in a narrative , satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i was walking through the forests and gathering &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and ponds and ponds , i would bring it all home and look under the microscope .
i was really excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and try to figure out the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can put together 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we never could have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably pretty well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this monitoring with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as a child , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , hiding behind the textbook , drawing around .
the creativity had to be kind of out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth .
you have to admit that this is a big selection .
surely , i would never get to an alien world with a spaceship . it seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all that i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let that discourage .
i annoyed my father until he finally made a dive school in buffalo , new york , just on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my trading line in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , only two years later , i got a face on my face when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been disputed , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat oceans , is as rich as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know any limits , as opposed to our own , bright human imagination .
until today , i feel the deepest awe of what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean stops with the same intensity as ever .
so when i chose a job as an adult , it was filming .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner drive to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together , and that was the fit .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of fought .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : in order to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water kind of -- we had to go back to computer-generated animation , cg .
what came out was the first computer-generated software surfing figure ever to see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring money , and in fact , he was just playing his production costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , famously advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , it &apos;s got to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to terminator 2 , my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy from liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would come .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world had reached , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company , along with my good friend , stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature designer at that time called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analogy processes with optical printers and so on and start with digital production .
and we did that , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature-design -- which we actually started the company for -- we started too slowly .
i &apos;d written this piece &quot; avatar , &quot; which was going to push the measurements in visual effects and computer-generated effects throughout new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made by cg , and the main characters should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was pretty much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we weren &apos;t able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic , a passionate film .
but i actually wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , to be one of the last of your people who speak your language , not to have a chance to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good retailer for marketing . &quot;
and i talked to them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but this goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bullseye eye .
it wasn &apos;t a movie , it wasn &apos;t a hd , it was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparations for this were enormous . we had to build cameras and shell and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep sea gears resemble a space mission .
well , they were also highly technical , and they were also necessary , extensive planning .
you get into this capsule , then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t restore it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like i &apos;m in a science fiction movie .
it &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was really obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , the part that had to do with curiosity and science -- it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature where we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and the science at the time when we saw them had no words .
so that got me right , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice for a while of full-time explorers . &quot;
and then we started to dive to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we returned to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiber glass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck , and they had no means for it , so we developed the technology that was necessary .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m seeing plans that are quite similar to these boards here , and i know once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
now , i &apos;m just doing it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically inside the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjama vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner at a time , i &apos;ve always known what would appear in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over the film for months when we were filming the film .
the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and put your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all kinds of post-humane futureless scenarios that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we &apos;d seen down there , like these deep sea squares , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 players , nasal hair trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they live with help from chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degree centigrade , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space , and who have to do with nasa , and they &apos;re in nasa &apos;s nasa expertise , and they &apos;re planning real space missions , and they &apos;re going to russia , and they &apos;re going through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going to go to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , it turned out that i took space scientists with us into the deep sea .
i took them along , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in these extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but we actually did science , in fact , in space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , back then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business yet , you can be sure that you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think a director has to be able to lead , a leader , like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going on ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re just going to play the production cost . it &apos;s not a trace of fame .
everybody thinks i &apos;d run away from &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar , &quot; and i would have celebrated the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no glory , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the sake of the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that you have . you make it the noise of discovery , and because of the strange connection that comes when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all this with only 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were on sea for two to three months in a row .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the observation that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anybody else .
if you go back to land and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on the sea , &quot; you can &apos;t explain the other thing . it &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have been through something in common and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a reciprocal respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve the opposite respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so again , i stood on a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
a tremendous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
it changed my way of making films , completely .
there were people who thought we would have been doing really well on the planet and transported these ocean creatures .
for me , it was more of a fundamental way of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human quality .
our imagination is a force that can even create reality .
and the attention of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i get young filmmakers saying , &quot; give me an advice to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself , but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploring , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees a trustworthiness .
no important endeavor that demanded innovation was ever taken without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with , and failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time job at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to allow the things that we need to invent and provide to allow the poorest two billion to live a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate change deterioration means that , over many years , the seeds will not grow , we will be raining too much or too little , and things will change in the way that their fragile environment cannot sustain .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important for them .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , it would be far the most effective energy to reduce poverty .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this terrible destiny actually happens to someone on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly man dies and takes the last silver of an old language with himself .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the explicit co2 , which leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature elevation has some very negative implications . effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to near zero ?
isn &apos;t half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot tall truck that has to make under a three-meter bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go all the way down , to zero .
well , we &apos;re releasing a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to make changes that are going down to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
just different economic changes have changed it at all , and we have to go from rapid increase to reducing and reducing to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get to zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that is emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor of this and think about how we get it to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it goes to nine billion . moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to get 10 to 15 percent down , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make a dispute and use less , but on average , that number will go up every year and double , in total , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street light .
now , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the building , there are a lot of services whose energy effort is decreasing some individual services by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizers make , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- 05 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air travel , the playroom for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and it &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get that to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emits co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and you say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually you &apos;re just kind of wrong , and some people are coming , some are not .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked it .
the idea became really tangible for them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
and for energy , i came up with this .
i decided that letting go of fireflies , my next year &apos;s contribution to the environment would be here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;ve been told they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks and b has those benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of game solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or another , that have an incredible scaling and unthinkable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a moderate contribution , and if you do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you &apos;ve got to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you &apos;ve got to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimney after the burn , under the chimp , under pressure , and then store somewhere and hope that it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but get it to 100 percent is going to be very difficult , and to get an agreement on the co2 , is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the time question .
who &apos;s going to make sure ?
who can guarantee something , which literally many billions of times bigger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong despite human engagement , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work on them .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some downsides .
one is the energy density that these technologies create is dramatically lower than power plants .
and if you say , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about a lot of square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power station .
the other thing is that these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem to be shining every day , and it doesn &apos;t always hurt the wind .
so , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prize challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you need to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where it comes from .
and there &apos;s the warehouse problem .
and to show the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all the kinds of batteries that are made : for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything . and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve looked at with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses . i &apos;ve found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches right now .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support it by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go ? what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
a lot of people will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already involved in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , pursues the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; well , isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we were all talking one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonical .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy , &quot; which sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who is not white and most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear sector ; modular , liquid .
the development stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a great surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , they &apos;d been thinking about this for a long time , but you could never simulate whether it was going to work , but since there was modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost is much better .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head over it , you just burn it . a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called the &quot; walking wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the part that &apos;s burned out today , so it &apos;s called the utilized uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you take the ocean water and just filter it , you get enough fuel for the rest of the life on the planet .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the target that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many are talking about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and there will still be some agriculture . hopefully , whale threat and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to reach this 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , needs to completely reorder their electricity generation .
the other note says whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get them to the rest of it .
that &apos;s super important .
this becomes a key element of this toolbox .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency efforts to get reductions in the way . the less we emitt , the lower the co2 will be , and therefore the temperature will be .
but actually , this note for the things that we do , which don &apos;t lead completely to the big reductions , is just the same , or even less important , as the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books about this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be debated , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you only allowed me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through energy , without co2 , i would come up with this wish .
it has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short term will be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich countries , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice as to how this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i appealing for ?
we need to spend more research on this .
if countries hit places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
they should discuss this innovation strategy , and they would be shocked by the ridiculously small money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market wheels , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you !
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the great scientists what we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100s million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , find another billion , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is done , when it goes like promised , it &apos;s all very clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
to understand this right , it means building deep in the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts to work up and down ?
bg : right . now you &apos;ve got to refill the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and get things out of it -- it &apos;s not good .
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they buried without all the complexity .
and it sits there and it burns for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we are reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor , which even provides a solution to the waste .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s much less garbage with this method -- then you take it and put it in the next reactor and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that exists already , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors , which is our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we put in our fills , and it dramatically reduces the volume of waste in this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t set ourselves in a place yet , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting rules of openness for everything called &quot; nuclear &quot; in the name . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the empire of energy , and i talked about how this fits with the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese did something in the direction .
this is a version of one thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has done a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability to really get into life ?
bg : now we need one of these scalable , electricity things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that has shown us the environmental models that we need to keep .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , that could be easy .
and luckily , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds that , just as the approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be best if it could do multiple things , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and that they got married as quickly as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little hard , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different things , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , plays the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the earth temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research that &apos;s called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to go together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work at all on insurance , because maybe that makes you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have it , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientists : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say that there &apos;s a chance in a million of them .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems of investing in something that you &apos;ve only got before -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i don &apos;t care that it doesn &apos;t emitt co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be their answer to the bjordan lomborg argument , that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , reducing poverty , fighting malaria and so on , it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
other things should not suffer .
you get too big money , and here you can disagree with people who are reasonable , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you &apos;re trying to fund that . for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short of a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the dispute you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing our lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks .
now , his new pocket is , &quot; why isn &apos;t research going to talk more ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a mindset that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four-foot teams have to build the largest free structure with 20 spaghetti , about 1-foot tape , about 1-foot thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , even though it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves to the task .
they &apos;re talking about it , they &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re running around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization . they sketch and put spaghetti out .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of the growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow , and you put it very gently on the top , step back and admire ta-da .
but what happens then , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy doing other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a series of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they produce really poor shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does this happen ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fighting .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realize it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten children do differently is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get immediate feedback , what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most of them is about five inches , bwl students create half of them , lawyers a little bit more , but not much , child garden children are better than adults .
who &apos;s the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
1m is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and secure self-strengthening geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos are about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they become significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of the process companion .
they run the process , they understand it .
and that team , which is regulating and paying attention to the work , is significantly improving the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i admit to you and not get a good note in my course .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six , you have stable structures .
now i was trying something interesting .
i thought we &apos;d bring the poker effort to the same .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize for the winners &apos; software .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competition has a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of prototyping .
so the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping digital tools and processes to help teams make cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed to how carl demonstrated , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- all the way to the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a common experience , a common language , or property , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how you build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of people optimizing and refining the system .
there &apos;s also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it requires that we all make our senses about the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our feelings and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s actually a corner that i &apos;m not going to tell you about that the wirelessplan works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
so let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve asked my friends a lot lately this question , and they all wanted to go into the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that you &apos;ve somehow moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then they would suddenly realize what it would be like if they couldn &apos;t speak their own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and it &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time you &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re putting : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heel .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have in terms of making decisions , again and again and again , whether we should or should not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death row .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today might expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we defeated them . puff .
in the rich world , disease that millions of us have yet threatened before only one generation , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip and our blackberry on other hip , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphony , robes , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method to try things out is to see if it works , change it if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world thoroughly .
drinking water , arable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of this chaos , we will disappear .
and even though they &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world with energy that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as urgent as now , never before .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of astonishing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time where we &apos;ve been fighting progress , where we &apos;ve been ticking over these things more , on more fronts than we are now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t liberate them .
not even the truth will release it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right for ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for the new yorker , a little article .
and i was amazed to bump into resistance , to resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing to do in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i was doing , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article on genetically modified food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i wrote an article about it , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they believed that molecules were in a certain way , rather than a random way , to move around , a transmission in nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it certainly will affect your experience of the football game of your child in a very different way than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type in , we pass in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy at all were not fanatics .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to have .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it twin .
we talk about it ironically , with little leadership signs about it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what are the reasons .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just name a couple of names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
don &apos;t take anything but granted .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take that evidence , and we &apos;re not good at that .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen before , and hopefully never see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masses , mumps , and roteln vaccine .
very scary .
there were a lot of studies done to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no none .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t matter because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents of a government that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where vaccines are falling for masers .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened is that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has masses ?
does a single person in the audience ever see anyone dying of masses ?
doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 per hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can deny it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and that &apos;s something we need to learn , and it &apos;s very quick .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no quantum , no child &apos;s paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today i &apos;d like to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to get you to understand what actually has been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotaviral vaccine with a couple of other people .
he can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul speaks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets phone calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them away , returning the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander from me wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i &apos;m a little too shrimp . &quot;
no one ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have children &apos;s paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have children &apos;s paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning went to an airplane and is flying to los angeles , and right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves up in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you jump .
i know you &apos;ve done that because half the americans are doing it every day .
all these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with them .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of free .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazing cold and soul to ourselves that can afford it .
so we run away from it , and where do we go ?
we walk into the poor of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares you ? let people do what you want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options that you can choose , people are very difficult to decide at all .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer agent who wants to treat his patients with potato procedures .
if you go on that path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is plained worse than any other of this disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
so i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study on volunteers &apos; worth of aging .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersily , every rose steel , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melon .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more accurate . and of course there are risks . but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people extende their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records from vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically modified food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormonoculture , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid of a real sludge , and it keeps millions of people from flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than at the moment . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they only offer five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that is half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it doesn &apos;t have nutrients , it doesn &apos;t have a protein , and scientists are building all this stuff in it .
and then people could eat the food and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say to this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now there are some of us who are kind of forgetting that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is to choose , it &apos;s so hard to decide which to choose , to put it in the morning .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves : why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be the highest time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep doing it the way we &apos;re doing it , we &apos;re guilty of something we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , i think , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s happening here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and of course , tomorrow never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them to where we want to .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it as , &quot; a deception that &apos;s going to be true , if someone just believes it hard enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient only believes it tightly enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body that you call the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they retire because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it &apos;s also that making decisions is so hard that they miss big investment officers of their employers .
a deception becomes something real because someone perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study , my hand , that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my fault like this .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeves back .
they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to push my wrist right here .
this is how you can see that anything is moving at no time , and as long as i say anything here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand up , and hopefully when everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so solid in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickety . and you can study anything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young children who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
i think many of you in this room probably know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a series of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i embrace my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it moving from behind , this finger here , my index finger , just from where he was , into a position where he was so extended .
great trick ?
sitting in the back is someone who had no childhood .
so , he &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what it &apos;s all about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my index finger , which is there now .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick with your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
because it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin pill , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you plot a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more measurable .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really made me freak out .
but it turns out that it &apos;s not all .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
a colored capsule , which is at one end yellow and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dose also matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics now . sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salad ressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an effective -- a few milliliters of an effective substance that you inject to a patient .
it creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that &apos;s getting a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when it comes to the thing .
this is a six-inch long needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so this is the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; specialized meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now , i &apos;m going to stick this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to push through it , until it goes back to the other side .
if you &apos;re being miserable -- if you fall easily in the hotel room -- i &apos;ve introduced this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost oblivious .
so i propose to you , if you get bad fast , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to make the first hot part here in the back .
you can see it in a second , but you can also see it away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here where my meat starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little one .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m sure it &apos;s not so stupid and it &apos;s going through the skin itself just to keep us talking for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and the people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
take , for example , this kid of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the anakonda people , believe that , mythologically , they came up from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is required by the great selection of different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and which is a perfect salad ressing ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened was that imagery leads you to regret the decision , and that regret works negatively to the satisfaction that you made from your decision , even though it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn it around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look at it .
the people in the back , or the people who see this at some point in the video , will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , it would -- look , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bloody . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze some blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret , that &apos;s disappointing for the choice they make .
but i think in this framework here and with the intention of making a deception something real , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll be happy about it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that were published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up after about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that , in a way , make it almost impossible to think about happiness .
and my talk today is mainly going to be about these cognitive traps .
secondly , what economists call oppertunity costs .
this is true of laymen who think about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we are just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these cases is a resist to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we &apos;re going to have to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a variation of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or being happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both summarized in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the concentrate illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a situation that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a fragile and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling us how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we &apos;re comparing .
and then he added , really quite emotional , and it ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to hold of .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and about other people in the sense of two types of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is capable of experiencing the past , but is basically just the present .
it &apos;s the inherent self that the doctor presents -- you know , when the doctor asks , &quot; does it hurt if i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memorable self , and the memorial self is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel in the past ? &quot;
well , if there are a lot of alternatives to consider , it &apos;s simply to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the memorial self , and changing the two is part of the mess of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we go to telling stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that what we can keep from our experience is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who undergo a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful anymore , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who &apos;s suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than b in the memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the memorial self .
from the point of view of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extende the reflection of the patient a by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much .
that will lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you &apos;ve done this for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self is worse off patient a , and you &apos;ve done that the memorable self of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what &apos;s the story of this ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
and what a story is about is the turnarounds , the major moments and the end .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end was dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one after the other .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is about three seconds . which means , you know , in a life , there are about 600 million of them . in a month , most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of them are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , they somehow get the impression that they should count that what happens during these moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we consume while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory itself from us .
so we have the memorial self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the relationship with time .
in the view of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first week , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory itself .
for the memory of the self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories to it .
they haven &apos;t changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memorable self from a living self , and time has very little influence on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons , and decides which one to choose , then the one who chooses the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that election .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predictable memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the remembering self , and you can think of the memorial self as one that , in a way , draws the living self through experiences that don &apos;t need the living itself .
i have the impression that when we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we &apos;re doing vacation , largely , in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume from our memories ?
this is a people that doesn &apos;t cognitively distinguish between the colors of blue and green , because the celestial scene is matched to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often about how often i think about other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably eaten from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s only one and a half hours .
there seems to be disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why are we giving memories so much weight over the course of the weight that we experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know that at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everyone in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide that conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think in the sense of time , you get an answer , and if you think , in the sense of memories , you could get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self throw up two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the lives of the living self ?
and you &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory self , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mask the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers on well-being , who have long screwed the exploration of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their lives , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them a lot about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he has missed the ability to have a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone and you were to tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has ordered their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of the happiness of the self .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get from our selection , even though what we chose is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t imagine happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason we can &apos;t think about happiness clearly is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are , you won &apos;t get the correct answer .
if you ask this question , you think that people in california have to be happier if they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could go to california at the end .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who are moving to california hoping to be happier .
well , their living self is not going to be happier .
and the more options there are to choice , the more attractive properties of this choice are recognized in the opperture cost .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we did a telephone a couple of weeks ago , they mentioned to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup survey .
is that something you can get us to participate in , because you have a few minutes left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result we found in the gallup survey is a number we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings are varied with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a $ 600,000 a year of income .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year are unhappy , and they become more unhappy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line about this .
i mean , i rarely saw such flat lines .
what happens is , obviously , that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that the lack of money certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memorial self , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon is a couple of statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american pursuit , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything upside down , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , would take a finding like the seriousness and make politics based on it ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of the research on happiness in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are in the process of recognizing that they should think of happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life rating , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the heritage itself .
he makes a statement about living in the present , and maybe doing things slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience of the population happiness .
this will be , i think , part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
now , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one important point that he makes is , whoever you decide for one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
some of you may think , &quot; this is a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is just the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to increase that time dramatically .
i calculated that it took 21 billion hours a week to play time .
this seems a little bit disgusting , so i repeat it so that if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we have to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical for the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it &apos;s going to be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might get some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , some fear , but also external concentration , deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you also play , you &apos;ll see some nuances here , the eyes zoomed up and the mouth are a sign of optimism . the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . all right . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so very positive that you didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually able to do something like this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is right in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of problem-solving faces all over the world , when we &apos;re attacking the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? yes ? ok .
this is me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. , why we &apos;re better in games than in real life .
this is a problem that a lot of players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good at play in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less success , even though that &apos;s true .
we do more in game worlds . i mean well in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this hit me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think a lot of us are transforming into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful , to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel overwhelmed . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just do anything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a worldwide mission , and immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a job that they can &apos;t solve .
but always on the edge of their skills , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and rotate . there &apos;s always a very important thing to do .
and there are plenty of employees .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that sense that when you have a fingertips , people are ready to be ready .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a kind , and they bought them , and they were mismatched , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they had been wearing them long enough and often washed enough , they started feeling ok .
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
if i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have a plus-one talk and plus-one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory all the time that we prefer to spend all of our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
up until now , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like a couple of jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we &apos;re spending playing with games right now , it just makes sense when you consider the time in terms of the size of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out , because it turns out that by using all this time to play , we &apos;re actually changing what we &apos;re capable of as people .
we &apos;re becoming collaborative , heart-to-heart creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person in a country today with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the accurate total , which they spend in school , from fifth grade to high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education on which young people learn exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn at school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake or slender or length ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research on cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a random subject until the 21st year , we become masters of it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever , like the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a full generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are gamers good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have kind of unprecedented human potential before .
so many people now have in the world that spend at least an hour a day playing online .
these are our master-players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to wash buttons or fans ? stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile devices , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world can play , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have a total of 1.5 billion players .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , imagine this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a grounded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players are not sitting around .
players are masters of poet social nets in spider .
do you want to get jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that people like more after we played with them , even if they defeated us .
the reason for this is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and remain with the game .
so the combination allows the growing of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relations .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or not do anything .
we know that we work as human beings optimally when we do hard , important work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
would you like to cut far down , keen , blah blah , blah ... &quot; and so on he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to be part of awe missions of planetary extent .
here &apos;s a background formation to get that to the right , and you know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with nearly 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve combined more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , the strange thing about these big houses that are spoken in because of the mischews , six or seven languages , but is that you never hear anyone who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online play environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelmingly .
so he says , this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can create stronger social ties in games than they do in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than they do in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says , it &apos;s completely logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that comes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes , out of sheep . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep .
and these were sort of the first people developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , more precisely , were invented in the kingdom of lydia during a famine .
i did better . all this selection allowed me to have better .
there was a great famine , supposedly , that the king of lydia decided to have a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and on a day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the box game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next day .
same thing , i think , is what we &apos;re doing today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get rid of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , all that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
this is the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years of famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to use a final cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up an epic adventure .
they left lydias , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there was food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrusers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently realized that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine could explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try to explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing games for 18 years , and then they had this introduction and learned so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time of the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization looking for a new world , so i take my 21 billion hours a week .
we should overcome that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we &apos;ve solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s the question that i &apos;ve spent the last few years at the institute for the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these possibilities available , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans go up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , expressing how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then to empower people to translate this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and get people to have epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing it since over the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a changing experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you get said , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have stayed in the game of harvested habits .
so for the next world &apos;s play , we &apos;ve set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute of the future .
the starting point is the computation of a supercomputer , that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global extinction sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn it , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to gamers to sign up , we almost like a jerry bruckheimer film .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream-team , &quot; you have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-street , and only together can you save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march three , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you close the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social remodeling , &quot; in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and inviting them to redesign social .
we have a comic book on this . we have &quot; level high &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social nets , urgency optimism and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play games together to survive on this planet another century .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look ahead in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago when i was writing an italian wired article .
i was always ready in writing my synonymous dictionary , but i was done with the process of texting , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked in my life , which really means &quot; disabled . &quot;
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjective : &quot; crippled , helpless , destroyed , destroyed , maimed , wounded , wounded , layered , disconnected , served , balanced , balanced , embedded , paralyzed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , old age weak , pulled out of the traffic , restored , repaired , counted , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh at first , it was so ridiculous , but i just got to &quot; oriented , &quot; and couldn &apos;t continue to speak , and i had to stop reading and collect myself for this flooding vocabulary and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a full-blown , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen , and then you start talking .
adding opportunities into people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t go positive in any way , but today i &apos;m going to celebrate for the opportunity and the adventure i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expected me to find a more appropriate contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words shoot me under near antonym &apos;s &quot; whole &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you say can also manifest .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
if you &apos;re a human being , just being mindless as a child , could be enough to confine them and to overcome them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open you doors ?
a human being who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . a italo american , whose name , as you can think , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i hated them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated with dr. p. when i was a five-year-old , and so i tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he watched me do one of my exercises -- these practices were just tiring and grappling -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day one of these benches .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this because , if you did , you didn &apos;t know what it &apos;s all about .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so i &apos;m doing the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do with the idea that becoming the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and breathtaking .
this is just one example of how adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the already quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine anything we would all wish : to allow each and every one of us to see themselves as powerful people .
our language refers to the social changes that were caused by a technological change in many cases .
and of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all their possibilities and evolve across the borders that they have set their natural destiny , not to speak at all about social networking platforms , enabled people to have their own identity , define themselves in a way , and navigate around the world to groups that they choose themselves .
so perhaps this technological change is more clear than ever , that there &apos;s always been another truth , which is that every human being in society can give something very special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people kept asking me to tell about how i deal with widerness , and i &apos;m going to give you something : this sentence has never fit for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering people &apos;s questions about it , and i think i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with widerness lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on a challenge , without being shaped by the interconnected experience , as if my life had been so successful , because i could extend the potential fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
vivities are not an obstacle that we need to curve to get better with our lives .
vivities are just in our lives .
and i tend to think of widerness as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to do that at all , or the impact of the fight of a human .
there are wizards and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just universal , and every person is dealing with it differently , but the question is not whether we deal with widerness or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but we also prepare them to get good with it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that everything was better than anything was worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to have experience that was a pleasant surprise .
you have to make two things clear : one , the medical fact of being amputated and , for the other , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not i &apos;m disabled .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world constantly means that you could describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people that we care about , and to give them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even prognosis of quality of life that they expect , we need to pay attention that we don &apos;t actually make the foundation for someone to be disabled .
perhaps the current concept that is just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for each one , a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive all of his forces and possibilities , and we create , in addition to the natural struggle that you may have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we need to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there &apos;s a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventor spirit .
we should not deny or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we reverse them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the vienna .
i &apos;m more likely to realize that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome widerness , but that we &apos;re open to embrace them , to grab them on the hull , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is that things are as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we can think of widerness as something natural , consistent and useful , and so we don &apos;t feel so disturbed by their presence .
this year we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in the human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its species survives , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one who can best adapt to change .
conflict comes creativity .
not just from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the human ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut out of when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the meaning of widerness , a sense of iconic , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give a new meaning to vivities that goes beyond the severe times .
they never get surprised because their expectations , my expectations , are homegrown .
maybe we can see widerness as a change .
and vivities are a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if they really did ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could exchanging this paradigm of normality against another possibility or strength to even formulate it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills into the society .
anthropolgen found that we have always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , have carried older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience was valuable for these people &apos;s survival .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up in a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing in front of a sword of tomatoes .
it was summer , and i had shorts on .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; sorry , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so this .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really quite wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man that i only knew from telling my mother about this day , because , of course , i was very , very typical , very late on my birthday for two weeks .
my mother &apos;s prenatal diagnostic doctor was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without a wade legs , and my feet had focused on them , and i had only a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bridge , that stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never lead an independent life , and since then they just punished me lying . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won in a second grade letter competition , whether i was traveling with the trackers at the parade to halloith , whether i was my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he was using these cuts to teach his students , medical students from hahnemann medical school and hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of a human being .
and dr. kean kept telling them , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get anything else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave children alone , then children can do a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prosthetics against legs of meat and bone , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me this today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe this change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who wanted to confine me or overcome an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own inner forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if they can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , they &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open up the doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means creating something that is in one is to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was contacted peacefully in 1958 .
but abandon is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and in those days , gymnasia were transformed into a whole school .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided into notes .
and the a students are being tested , and they get the better teachers and so on .
they then have given students over a three-month period of time with a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note &quot; very good . &quot; they were told that they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one thing .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that , in reverse , the one-on-one students were told they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had failed school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t incorporated .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jean if there &apos;s only one way to buy it is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were simply told that the one-on-one students , and they are the students with the grade enough , and they taught them something , and they treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no more hope . it can &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human mind in continuing to hope to find ourselves and other people around us beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we &apos;re really putting our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i &apos;d like to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who knows only four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the name , but the god who knows only four words , and he constantly says , come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more and faster .
or you want to be more fitter , stronger , more powerful .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
how about living longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has been yearning for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose to remember a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to read that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a completely different world .
is all this just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous subject here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor about the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote an essay called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make any sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn your listening device off , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book that &apos;s about being wrong , because nothing in the course of this speech will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it also about the future ?
is it serendipity for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing species on the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this bush , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually most of the tree , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and modify the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes from the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , you realize that every one of us in our gut are doing more bacteria than it &apos;s leading cells in the rest of our body ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they could only wish without any effort on their own .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed about them , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to take off .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping to digest essential nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we meant to be something else -- something that may even be better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 trillion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , perhaps as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this also represents the entertainment of this speech , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology classes .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i realized something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in single organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on in both daughter cells .
but at the time when multi-cellular organisms appeared , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes decent .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body is at the same time as the sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who , in las vegas , did his show in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if you have to explain these experiences , you think it would be your fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him , there &apos;s a lovely , dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i &apos;ve tried to keep the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re generally better , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i are developed like boster rockets to send the genetic fractures to the next level of orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we all would understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there , that are thermophil , and by doing so , they survive the hot vapor , if fish were there , they would have coated fish , but they have managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place where people are in evolution , and particularly as we &apos;re looking ahead into the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contact was trying to record and made a major mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reasons for this is that , first of all , we were able to get a lot of genes that otherwise would have been selected and had been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configured our environment to make it so that they adapt to us just as we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re traveling and circulating and mixing us so much that they can no longer tell that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it will be a evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly maturing , but they &apos;re uncomfortable .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a species of distant planets , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that is not just natural , but led and decided by us as individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be that we do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to do genetic adaptations on the body , to heal and prevent the disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s or reduce the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no one , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than something .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in the order of four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about $ 20,000 and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality that there &apos;s going to be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- which frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblaste , and by manipulation of only four genes , the cell induced to take it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself but also serve for immunity against other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine versus influenza that &apos;s been growing in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes from tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the egg or the fresh fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- elimination of diabetes , remove the hemophily , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can allow the changes to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why not have the capacity of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why not live longer ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from alt style to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point a long time in the selection of our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually requires perhaps 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even in the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or their grandchildren , have to deal with .
are we using these decisions to shape a society that is better , that is more friendly , that is more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society of dielanguous and uniform , or robuster and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we &apos;re going to have to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions ?
in the good and the bad , and in the old days when you may think , these decisions will be up to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman skills , or another one that helps wheelchair users to stand up and go back .
now , as a paragraph of question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , is the thing to think about , which enables all of these choices in the industrialized societies , is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re not like anything else they &apos;re going to do in the morning , and that will give them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is indeed the true compound of human and machine .
but not only that -- it &apos;s merging and connecting with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldiers who are wearing about 100 pounds on their back on average , and it &apos;s the question that they should be wearing more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of it -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc now -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
there are a lot of places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about a lot of them whose problem is not too much choice .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , to crawl and to do highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we are so far , with our industrial partner , imagining this device , this new exoskeleton that year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m very passionate about .
there are 68 million people sitting in the wheelchair around the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injury , who are in the bloom of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- were hit by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , which is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since his , i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now , let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , who concluded that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached here on your back .
there are also batteries , the motor drive is on their hips , as well as their knee joints , moving forward in this rather smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and in the best form , when a monstrous purchase tree was paralyzing me .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went to my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steel every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn to ski again , climb and even drive with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt yesterday told you about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i fight as a fireman &apos;s help in a volunteer delete the fire .
now , in our city , in which volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be in the fire department pretty early to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the fire site , so i had a pretty good chance to get in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the steward man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who was sure to have one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the sleep train and barefoot under a screen out in the flowing rain while her house was standing in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go to the house and save the owner &apos;s dog .
the dog ! i was tired of the dog .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would rate as a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or wealth manager , who could now tell the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up , you have to go by the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went up -- the stairs up , up the hallway , past the real firemen , who at that point , at that point , were quite ready to delete into the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey back down , where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we took our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , his much more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a couple of weeks later , the fireguards got a letter from the owner &apos;s house , where they thanked themselves for the brave use in saving their house .
one of the most estimated kindness : somebody had even brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side job as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at the large scale , but i also see the acts of kindness and the mut of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so if i look around this room , and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or have been there on their way , i want to offer you the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in the lives of another , until you &apos;ve reached your first million .
if you have something to give , you give it now .
serve in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us feel worse there .
not every day will offer us a chance to save the lives of a human , but every day offers us the opportunity to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where women take the ceptor , with sex , say hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationship .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the congo forest .
if something of what enables people in our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , it would not only improve people &apos;s lives , but our dignity would be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
now , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve overstated this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
as chimpanzees are led by great , frightening guys , the bonobo-society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because that leads to an excellent tolerant society where lethal violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese forest , and they &apos;re just hard to see .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been raging for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement review .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction is also endangering the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decrease of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos that are left -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , they have bisexual sex , they have alternating partners , and rules like this , conflict and social angels .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and them , play is fundamental to the integration of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big selection is plaining us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about the creation of diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos playing , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-art -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it , right ?
yes !
finally , please read this cartoon , and a highly developed person says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are prevalent , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of bringing new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires trust and also promotes -- while at the same time , it &apos;s tremendous fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peacefully with water .
i think , just like they play , we sometimes play alone , and we refer to the limits of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutrient soil of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us into our past and present .
but they also have a secret to our future , a future where we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing reinforced cooperation .
the secret is that play is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconsistent world , we need to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem very appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together , while we &apos;re rediscovering creativity as we rediscover the companion and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , the very same day , at the very same moment , each baby -- okay .
impoverished fantasy , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
so two pairs , each baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because if you imagine all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
just imagine for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm has a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries an x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
they &apos;re both survivable , both light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people deal with anatomy -- meaning human bodies , animal bodies -- how they deal with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought the fish knew something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve worn in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , who are challenging social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word intersexuality .
intersexuality occurs in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a couple of examples of the possible types of sexual variants that are not like the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with a xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have in fetal stage are growing up .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone testosterone testosterone takes off .
they lifted these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the figure , and they concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called the androgenreceptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to it .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and they develop , but they don &apos;t get her period until someone comes to the point that there &apos;s something different .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian and uterus , they actually have testicles in them , and that they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the goldfish glass , so that anything is possible , you lower the happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and by the way , androgens are making , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think they &apos;re a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome building , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually speak on androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman born with testicles and has a androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual people are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , they can be spread across the entire range .
another example : a few years ago , i got the phone call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , he had a girlfriend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had ovarian sticks and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbladder .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase paralysis , and they decrease happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , actually , because he was inwardly mentioning that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variant of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , which is surrounded by ovarian tissue of testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- surgeons are often adjusted to the norm , is not because it would be advantageous to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic leap comes in with a certain identity .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have the concept that to be a woman is to have a female identity , to be a black person , is , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of their own history .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that is actually something very different for us , we &apos;re confused with these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now , you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had experienced most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the world &apos;s body championship in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me with the question , &quot; what test are you going to do , which tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no such test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t move between male and female , or between male and intersexual and intersexualistic , and we are tactile , and that is what we call natural line .
this is almost limited to complete security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation where , as our science continues , the more we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories , are much more fuzzy than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our considerations , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re finding the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re just different from them from a few nucleotides ?
as we continue to push our science forward , we &apos;re getting into a zone of uncomfort , where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , is the struggle over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes a human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but the handicap of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors had never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve been keeping a feather under their nose , and when they moved , they haven &apos;t buried them yet .
if it wasn &apos;t moving , you &apos;ve buried it .
but today we are in a situation where we want to take human beings out of vital organs and plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start to fight the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to have .
now , you might think that the whole thing would break down categories , someone like me would really make you happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
realizing that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about the considerations of democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know that they were racist , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years , i found myself looking at the narrow musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they showed back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years for us was measurable .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were thinking that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to father to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome , and what that might mean , and about the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers showed this idea back and replaced it by a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
they nivellized the play field , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities were counting , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural nature , and proven things like a supernatural concept of power , where transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth law .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of it , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical common ground .
and they &apos;ve prepared , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic common is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and ovarian sticks than difference , that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to ownership , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who spach over it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizen movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which are based on anatomical similarities before anatomical differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing in the disabled legal movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask important questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the common ground , we have to start to question why we maintain certain divisions .
now , well-being , i want to sustain certain divisions , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from the anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense for me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they make sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been in the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , the same day .
so let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani did not just kill the outside with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and do at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born for the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march 1 , 1980 .
just because maria was born three months before heinrich , she gets all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to take the right to take , to choose the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time he was born .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be attracted to what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , in all states , can &apos;t see the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can get married only in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is making such progress in the field of anatomy , that we have to reach a point where we have to admit that a democracy that is based on anatomy might fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , sometimes it feels like science is self-assembling .
we &apos;ve tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimum components .
so where do we go ?
it seems that our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas decided at a point that to marry a man means that you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should judge people not for &quot; their skin color , &quot; but for their character &apos;s property , &quot; and go beyond anatomy like that .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized for almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social benefits rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably also know some light labradordogs that are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relations than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate on the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- with the fmri being visible ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d make our thing good in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new lives , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , for example , in iran , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s prepared to undergo a gender conversion , in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of conditions don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these conditions -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago , who had brought a few siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i phones with him , and i asked him why he made these interventions -- it was highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be treated very poorly , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of having an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are , without having to change the state .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about what democracy might look like , or could have looked like if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that for a feminist is a little bit radical , and that is , i think , there might be different kinds of insights that govern from different types of anatomy , particularly when people apply group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do this with a smaller genome .
i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality for years now , because i &apos;ve been interested in research in gender differentiation .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every one , but on average -- tend to give more complex social relationships and caring for people who are vulnerable in the group , give a lot of attention .
and so , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , this is the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not a female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there could be something , on average , which makes women &apos;s brains different from male , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relations , and more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve been able to get out to about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely concerned about how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how we can care for each other .
and maybe that &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we &apos;re going to take democracy over anatomy -- less about the individual body thinking about identity and more about relationships .
so that , as a people , when we try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love every opportunity to find a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also to photograph and blog lately .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from second hand on fleet markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe to the environment , and also to the money market in my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good cause ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes a shopping for my own personal search .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i put in here for this exciting week at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way to go forward is actually to synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for just a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman running around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i &apos;ve found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i , believe it or not , have learned from these adventures to carry nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started asking the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i carried all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i &apos;ve spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
does it allow chemistry to create these really large molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing dressing , or i remember her seven-year-old .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost like this .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you briefly .
if you believe that you are inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t carry .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone here in this audience .
they were drilling each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : one of your own unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again when people came to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all again .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to stick these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiating outfit , waiting for me just to have a little love in my heart and look for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everyone together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying visual point .
this is what we call in our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because of the formula 1 in the past decades , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you would take your budget and put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a couple of thousand sensors that are going to pass the information from the car , pass it on to the system , and then process it , and then use it to send back decisions and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting arrow .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems begin to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been embedded with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the free .
and as a computer in the free , they start reacting in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- they produce up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , it &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it &apos;s still increasing , and our last point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all this sense and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that &apos;s organized by paola antonelli for moma later a year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all our objects , our environment , start talking to us back .
in a certain sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there is going to be both of them , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means that at the end he took the hammer and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start to see .
now the first project i &apos;d like to introduce you to is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s being collected from the operator anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of the day , the head push .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a tor . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half time . end of the normal game time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the great impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the seven-team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the space about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that a mac computer is made of , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the trash and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but that &apos;s what happens to a lot of unuseful things and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that if we see every day , the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re still throwing away every day .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can move behavior change forward .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about this and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we were discussing at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe had a beautiful tradition to use water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they &apos;re creating something like a water curtain with images of water .
if these images fall down , you can write patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to jump through it , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor to the hole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and leave it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths occurred by drilling through .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windig , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually lower the roof .
or you could close the building and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , these days when you drive the roof down , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building ; it &apos;s just that the architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me trying not to get wet in the testing of the sensors that opened the water .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was an even more fun thing .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical images , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us to think about the following project that i &apos;m showing you now .
imagine these pictures could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little visual point with changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the space .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of induced chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- an equal formation in two dimensions .
or unregularly in three dimensions where what changes is the light , not the position of the dots .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution solutions .
but then it could only be a 3d cloud of images that you can go through and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire controller coming down to form a smooth v like a before .
if you turn on the light , it looks like this , so just like we saw before .
imagine that every single person is being controlled by people .
it could have a impulse every single visual point that comes from people , from the movements of people or something .
i want to show you something first of all here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do it all the time .
but then once we have all the images , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that we bring people back to doing something and changing the environment -- almost what we call the cloud movement , how to move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that everybody can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened in the last few years , the last few decades , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to address the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , as our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but it &apos;s covered with images .
you can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympia in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both , the physical cloud in the sky , and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow in the night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very interested in the context .
so we think this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that humans are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica about 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was honored .
my heart raced , i was dizzy , trying to grab what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were racing almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice cubs .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they clearly interact with their surroundings and their experiences .
some refuse to give up and grab to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , just like humans often see us .
but we wanted to go much further . we wanted to build an entire bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it at cassets the size of the virus , and we could variate the size of the cassette tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i &apos;m going to do my pictures of these icebergs as if i were to make portraits of my ancestors , in the consciousness that they exist in these individual moments from this way , and never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the icebergs that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely do you actually witness a rolling iceberg .
here you see it now .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information has to be really error .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on was this guy .
his name is tempt .
mt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the 1980s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; paps , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the als .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that does design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and support his thing .
we followed the geneaology back eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age , and we were still killing him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in the resurrection process , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;re listening to the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate now ? &quot;
anybody see the film &quot; butterfly and diver bell &quot; ?
this is how they communicate -- this is how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to get it .
i committed myself to the place and to his brother and his father -- in the words of &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that someone who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw with a laser pointer on it that only registers the negative area .
so they &apos;re moving around and doing art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there will follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sex parts , and then the shrinks come , after the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and i ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to use your eyes to control things , then we should find a way that tempt can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve put unique elements in here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first of all , we &apos;ve insurance the doors , and we &apos;ve actually gotten a device for tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
also , we &apos;ve flown seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
a lot of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do this , and we came back and all the images on the walls would have weighed graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the boardroom in venice , my children were involved , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach boardroom , some copper wire and some things from the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of constraints .
no insurance can squeeze .
no hospital .
now , any paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to the tempt room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of someone else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a 4-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rubble in front of the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and crammed nights , tony drew back for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve tended his bed so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve been drawing something .
i feel like i was squeezed underwater , and finally someone grabbed down and raised my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids , and there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our campfire .
that &apos;s what keeps us off and makes us continue to evolve .
and we need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same with a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve gotten all kinds of recognition .
we won some awards .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own bags .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrases , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us when one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about it is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that there &apos;s going to be an exhibition in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will probably be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty remote .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with exchange technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so we could put something on the legs together .
and this question should be asked every one of you , every single day , where you have something to get something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
in the beginning , we just signed .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come from that as a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or you can have leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin &apos;s toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the teacher &apos;s room .
and she did it secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to take a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a phone call from this teacher , woman posting , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man that i know you &apos;ve found him by now .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to please hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we put eight on their family because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put into my hands .
what happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that included five to seven thousand letters , added them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to reconcile them , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this is so often mentioned here today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , he needs love and pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you climb up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power station , the clap , clap , clap , clap , clack , clap , clack , clack , clap .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the flight companions .
so i looked at them in a second , and they said , &quot; no problem , we &apos;ve probably caught some birds . &quot;
in every single step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , what they &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot pointed out the machine after the hudson river .
it &apos;s not usually the route .
he shuts down the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most intuitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; make the impact . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the bordstaff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a shy , life was over .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment , everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people that i wanted to hand and didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase that says , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is that far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything else in life .
and that urgency , that goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much about hair width -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i was trying to get better at everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regret the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i was not arguing with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and as the internal clock begins to count , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 ... &quot;
if we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 pieces , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this sense of dying , human being , is not terrifying .
it &apos;s almost as if we &apos;re prepared for our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in one thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my children grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a performance of my daughter -- first graders , not much artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that uses biology to repair dna that can put those pieces together .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense for me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , is my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became part of the wonder of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to push up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococccus radiodurans , which is three million wheels of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is actually quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in nail .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually make a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows virus going into a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research at stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows , the droplet part , made by countless zero-day-flaws .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all fused back together as it was .
it didn &apos;t make any sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized that this is a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a particular configuration was discovered , even when the particular program that &apos;s trying to infect on this goal .
and if not , stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , that really caught my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal was .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we &apos;d better be able to figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s structured into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the inside information .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve heard that the droplet of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see an excerpt from this attacking code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so the first thing we were looking for was systems function , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what animal species was .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for tickets and data structures , and we tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely highly grave sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and it &apos;s very likely in iran , because there &apos;s most infections that have been reported there .
now , in this area , there aren &apos;t several thousand goals .
it basically runs out on the bay department of nuclear power and the uranium incentives in the natch .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power stations from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up and tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor controller .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was to actually make it happen slowly and incredibly slowly -- obviously in the attempt to make waiting engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse , looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is very smooth out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature on how these centrifuges are built in the natch and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call kascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that was really good .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results were achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a gas and had to regather ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and the rotors turn it down and slows it down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually have what the goal is .
it &apos;s native , and it &apos;s just native .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be met by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a picture of the molecule that we made using these processes -- actually , we just used hefe-mechanics with the right design of the pieces , we fit them in , and then we automatically add them together .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- has really taken me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the descending values of sensors -- so , for example , from printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still running during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the chasing chase , the monitoring camera is fed with pre-recorded video footage .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just overlists the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overcome a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , this is a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , if the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up deployment valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . that attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge in particular , with uranization .
so , for example , it would work just as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber-mass destruction weapon .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to ask ourselves .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for those attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
these are images taken over six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to get the consequences , and we start to prepare better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported , that people suspect that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is the cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us for heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last couple of years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little hard in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposed to most of my career to the terrible situations , and it &apos;s just to try to study social belonging in the way that they &apos;re enthralling and interesting , and hopefully in a way to understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , which is the largest molecule with defined structure that has ever been created by humans .
some of you may have heard that i turned on an ad at ebay a couple of weeks ago .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk in 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , were given the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let that back -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re seeing , which didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and not a lot of evidence of what the subject was going to be .
so what you got was this : your name here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could actually fly you around the ears after all , especially when i let your company stand for your participation .
but apart from that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is actually just the working title .
so despite that warning , i knew anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i work on , my new film , we study the world of marketing , the world of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty terrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could help me to go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys in a room .
you know , i had the idea for a film .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely suspended with brands -- from the front sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the x brand .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film is going to study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalians and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we were to print it with a 10-size-sized writing , and without distances , it would include 142 pages to print this genetic code .
that was more for emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not only going to have the x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the greatest film ever sold &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get you to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was helping to make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how empathetic people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; look , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to do that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde of vollidiots .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer is going to be extremely likely to be no .
obviously , with a virus , it &apos;s very simple . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do about the film or a difficult thing about me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands are .
yes .
if you look at the people that you have to do with ...
it &apos;s also as easy if you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take out the nucleus and put another in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out of &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a background conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your film . &quot;
and just so all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
none of them wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people see it .
especially in the world today , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium that the masses bring this message .
archaebacteria is integrated into the cell , but only recently have we shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that was what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal error , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is about is a problem .
you see , if you type in transparency in the google search , this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just discovering and looking through , instantly understandable ; characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome , and we decomposed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;ll estimate our very sophisticated graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it &apos;s supposed to be done , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange landroad .
and she &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me in lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the true version .
but since only one company , an agency was willing to help us -- and also just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to get the process a little further .
whenever i go on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they so far ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; florfusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short line .
now , i can answer all of your questions and give you an extensive census .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we are a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we talk about chicken , we talk about fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of something , each time adding thousands of characteristics to a species in just a second .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing types ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto-normal consumer .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s changed at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothing .
80s revival hits skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray sounds and stuff like that .
but i usually have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
man 2 : the brand i am is , i would say , porous fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : part hippie , part of yogi , part of brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schmuseum animals all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addict to writing .
can you do that ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added in .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often look at the intersection of dark glamour and neglect fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could invade my head , someone who could really help me understand what &apos;s called the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , febreze , hallmark discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures with them , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my view of the world .
it was exposed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all these things come from one place , and they start from one place for me , and they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
the next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about them ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was colored blue because of the genes that we put in .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppets are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you than you are .
what more metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to happen .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and converted completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that your brand personality has two separate but complimentary pages -- the morgan spurlock-brand is an eight-and-play brand .
they &apos;re doing very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with this .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than on both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- avoiding things that they &apos;re not sure they &apos;re not going to be afraid , they &apos;re going to avoid these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a historical chess .
what other brands are they doing ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
now , there are brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would you be ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings the blood to the walls ?
or are they more of a down attribute ?
are you something a little quieter , more reservative , more conservative ?
up-attribute are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , outlandish and lovely like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , magical , mystical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are they mindful and monthly like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , considerable , and sort of like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchima , but we can , by shifting software dna , things are pretty dramatic .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies , and they said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to get rid of this control that wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t normally have told -- stories that a commercial would usually never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you use mri today to pat the functions of the brain , both to make advertising and to make movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no sign , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we went to school districts , where companies go on their way to impoverished schools all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i succeeded , are where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands have done .
because they were surrounding the middle man , they were surrounding the agencies , and they said that the agencies might not really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film had premiered at the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
that actually only includes a two-and-a-half weeks of time .
this is just online -- no press , no tv .
the film hasn &apos;t been exposed yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of the cambrian explosion where there may be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency we talked to has recommended their clients to make their fingers .
one of the things that i believe in is that if you take your opportunity , you take risks that are in these risks .
i think if you keep people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that we need to encourage people to take risks in advance .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of ways that they might be scary .
finally , in advance , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
each of them is a big spoon , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , it brings us a little bit of honesty .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk is &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; you were presented by my good friends of emc , who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights on ebay .
big data for organizations around the world is transformed into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the height of $ 7100 to fund my ted performance next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i started to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who &apos;s also today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demonstration .
there are a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very easy to explain with this slide and access to it .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have too many museums and these works of art .
so when i traveled , and i went to these museums , i started learning a lot .
we grew from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- to bring technology together .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started doing this .
i think i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t make any difference .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to get to the end of the gang .
just carry on . lots of fun .
get them .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plush sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for anyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all the metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click this away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what &apos;s called the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion pictures ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and zoom out .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , the fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want deep inside .
and so i started playing around , and i realized there &apos;s something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i realized slowly that these kids were actually swallowing .
i did a little research , and i spoke to some people at met , and i actually found that it was a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the day of the day .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to get really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you an overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
the best one , though , is in a second .
let &apos;s quickly jump to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding details .
but what if you want to see the brushes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh create this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom into one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these pictures , you can create your own collection .
simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is the &quot; sent , &quot; in the national alongy .
you can miss everything with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i should not say that .
when we think about biological processes or any process to replace that , it &apos;s going to be a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptituts of every hemisphere , we could represent their brain .
for example , this one would be completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think that for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to add the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good proportion of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries from all over the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
they basically do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing at the same time can only be in a place .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a kid playing on a floor threshold .
he was another toddler , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he fell all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you alone , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with boardrooms , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you can fly directly through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
it didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , no one has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all these things are made of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why that shouldn &apos;t be .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and that of our imagination .
so i would feel stronger with the whole thing , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a couple of years ago , i was doing this .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m expanding it . we &apos;re looking right at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesities to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal , it &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new siliconic slices , and i racked for 100 hours on all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool , shaped hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it needs a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then people go up and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to bother them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that unmovable objects feel the same .
the fellow drivers for unmovable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s feeding on them and the heat of the space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaves quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the passengers .
and then we did .
we switched the light off , put it in a vacuum , and we sucked all the air out , and we cooled it all the way up until now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange to move .
instead of just sitting there quietly , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was kind of like this -- like a stretching and pulling bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we could make it vibrate at the same time and not vibrate -- something that is only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m telling you right now is what &apos;s truly fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes or optimizing these processes to make octan or make drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that the piece of metal is still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just too precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which simultaneously means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
it was worth plugging in the clean space for all this year , because , you check that , the massless difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine you &apos;re in a number of places at the same time , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just a narrow selection . we can select , after livelihood , production of chemicals or fuel production , and so on .
how would your consciousness relate to your body being delocated in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect to the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about quantum mechanics saying that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not exactly right .
there &apos;s more to it , and it &apos;s even deeper .
it turns out that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , where you actually sit down and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they want to live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new inhabitants .
at the moment , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in developing countries who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could make the world very simple with the showers , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , if you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just exchange the building of apartments against the city .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments already did this , but the other half didn &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you &apos;re going to get into , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid complaining and to distract from building .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , if the laws there would support this kind of building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that , about the same time , jafour and octavio , were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an undefeated area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian bottlenecks , and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a major depression .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both new and simple .
he asked octavio to become his stewardship .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focused on the fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , trying and studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we &apos;re giving new technologies great attention , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that are keeping us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so in december , we met in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember , in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing and dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you saw corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk was in a very simple form that a charter city is a place where the beginning of uninhabited land is a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and the people are able to decide whether to live under these rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to move our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i &apos;ve given another talk filled with facts that has included a graph like this that tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very big city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
just this airport has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have third-generation fuels that will come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar skills , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the congress leader came up on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city includes new opportunities for leaders as well .
the government leaders in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships , which they would support in the legislation of this charter , and in the execution , that everyone could trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the insight of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equivalent to all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and mistrust for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as a source material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted on congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional policy that is reliable for specific developing areas .
in a country that has just been a major crisis in which congress has been elected for this change in composition at 124 to a voice .
all parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
in order to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved to a voice for the second time with 114 .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places of the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
the one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a large , new city center built in south korea -- big than the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first with fuels of the fourth generation , in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban building is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
you already have a building site , and you &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court to provide as a court for the application of the local legal system .
and also urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you know , has already been declared , there are a lot of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who claim that they want to live in a different place .
a million people leave latin america every year and go out to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes it &apos;s even children who are trying to find their parents who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about this in honduras building a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or hundreds of them around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition with new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all kinds of different methods .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which , by the way , is a typical american on a day is 70 .
and also , a recent study with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that this ceo has been doing , and how much time they &apos;ve spent making decisions that are related to the issues .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only about 12 percent of their decisions took them an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category versus the one in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at dealing with the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , just your hand , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the decision-overlapping problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at nearly boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustards and essions and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank water .
i loved to go to this business , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were embedded in boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so i decided one day to visit the filialleiter , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work for people to really provide all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the buses of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras on it .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her march aisle .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it transforms co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we set up a little costumes right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first , what would more people stay and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at which case people were more likely to buy a glass of marble .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stopped when they were 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of march .
of the people who were standing when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of march .
now , if you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who you had six to choose than if you had 24 to choose .
now , to decide not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision-making problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to , even when it comes to our own best interests .
we study whether we can use stored co2 that could just be brought to production stores , convert co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so to the theme of the day , financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , in which we looked at the decisions for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible to a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability , is going to affect whether we &apos;re going to save more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a correlation .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people something between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , in fact , the lower the participation .
now if you look at the extreme , the plans that offered two fonds had a participatory rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that nearly 60 fonds offered , the participatory rate now fell to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you &apos;re participating in unlock , if you have more options for choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have the more possibilities they had , the more they rented it , the more they chose it , the more fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism or whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more opportunities they had , the more they put their money into pure market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , belongs to the decisions that someone would recommend if we care about their future financial well-being .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in humans , which bring in more and more choices .
they &apos;re making the decision -- they &apos;re pushing up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial decisions and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to choose for things that they self-satisfy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that we might enjoy looking at these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marble , but we can &apos;t , in fact , draw the comparisons and boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , constraint .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than it is today that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? becoming a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more that if you &apos;re willing to confine yourself , and the unimportant equal possibilities get rid of , well , then there &apos;s an increase in sales , there &apos;s a cost down , there &apos;s an r &amp; amp ; d , and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of the 10 least sold cats , they saw that the profits were growing by 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in sales and reducing cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today , is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that have recently come to the market , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson has been very strongly designing , which is a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard employee is now automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know how people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he was willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with flu , we &apos;re always in the back of it , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . anybody who &apos;s willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
you knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that you objectively saw , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that you felt it the second time you were real .
because the images made it feel real for them .
what brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , it &apos;s the concretization .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in the front .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , need to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences need to be felt vividly and concrete .
why do people spend about 15 to 30 percent more on average using an ec-map or a credit card than they do on barefoot money ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel money .
and it turns out that when you do it , that something feels concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees all working for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation in their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it was always , except we added a little bit of a difference .
the little thing that we added was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or pay a four-percent increase in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than we can with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaeas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine course .
it turns out that in the way of supermarkets up and down in the northeast , it varies between 331 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i put them in 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i divide them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice than i would have given you the 400 , if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the left display is swing and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is only that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the selection something that doesn &apos;t provide the choice .
and this problem is often when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you actually want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : premise of complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just need to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
at the last ted conference , i gave a introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer that gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to design your car completely .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car color , outdoor color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back and tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice all the time in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i lose it .
what they &apos;re finding is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough over and over again choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little choices to the many , then stay with them .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple start , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses , it doesn &apos;t tell me anything about my preferences at the interior , it still prepare me to choose .
so it &apos;s here . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever approached -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to motivate myself to be interested in it .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision-making overlap -- constraints -- are going to get rid of the excess alternatives ; concrete -- do it real ; categorize -- we can deal with more categories , fewer possibilities ; we can prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is thought to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that when you choose , you &apos;re selective .
and the more we &apos;re choosing , the better we &apos;re going to be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube , and i look at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos are becoming viral , and then we want to talk about why that &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith . of course , there was one , and voodoo is just the remaining of this very deep religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the beginning of the universe -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have allowed us to all or all of our creative activities to be hugely famous in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet until the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , a tiny percentage is ever viral , and it &apos;s seen thousands of times , and it &apos;s looked at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhhhh , wowwwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it was 23 million times seen .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video was actually already sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmy .
jimmy kimmel ended up sending the tweet that ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of this mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know , those other peaks are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 gave it up , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from mystery science theater was a first person to do a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared a big audience and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this great insiderjoke , and started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the one-sided conversation of the 20th century , the community &apos;s participation is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
i &apos;m working on this . he &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
the important thing is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of technology and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
an entire remix community shooted out of the ground from a stupid joke to something we can all participate in .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something we do .
who could have predicted all this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what scripts could you have written in which this is desperate ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only truly unique and unexpected can produce like the videos i mentioned .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy protesting bikes in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
because this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at the funny idea and his argument was five million times .
this approach applies to everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine was running for the first time .
and all of this leads to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and in which the audience is popular .
as i said , one of the biggest stars now -- justin bieber -- started with youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today we all feel like owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to hit the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep it in mind in the march of the communicators in saigon , as he must say , his life was a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , have now spotted his .
he moved back into silence .
he died , broken through the story .
it caused immense jubilee in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of the puzzle is how a boat in the early morning red is running out on the sea .
my mom was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a job : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film , saga glitt put a boat on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first ray particle that returned the entire distance around the lhc , and then , intentionally , collided with a part of the lhc to blow a rain of particles into the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear was pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother wore a little poison bottle .
in a prisoner &apos;s take , my sister and i would have , then she and my grandmother would have drunk .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came a lot of times , but were fooled by the death of men on our boat , or the failure of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start for six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple has ever swallowed like this .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of the puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we settled in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike in the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the smells from the charges came from the rest of the world .
and the fatalities were broken english between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , doubled layers .
she was somehow able to find the time to get english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was admitted and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to get for it , and most of the time , the new things that were always coming out of second hand .
two strings for school , each one , to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the ankles , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this is when someone went to the google side and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful chief of &quot; shrinking eye , &quot; and here and there were mutations : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
home where ?
there was something going on inside me .
there was a meeting with reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from nightmares from the boat .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then made a cosmetics education , and opened another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and inflexible , and troubled children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we reached a cultural impact next to the scientific .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who made unquestionable demands on himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing the tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many of them got help over the years .
and because of this help , in my last year of law school , i was chosen as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit .
tan le , anonymous inhabitant of footscray , was now tan , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak in places that she had never heard of , and in homes whose existence she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have been in the same bed every one of their days as they &apos;ve been for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no had never been a chance .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youth and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine runs on high performance .
i met people in all lifespan , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the borders of the possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newsroom , a new one , in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because in addition , it can be so easy to collapse the horizon , it can be so easy to accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve gone out enough from my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an intrinsic optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagnish .
so i followed my gut instinct .
i gathered a small team of people around me for the shoe &quot; doesn &apos;t go , &quot; an unresistant challenge .
now , the engineers of you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
we didn &apos;t have a cent for a year .
at the end of every day , i cooked a giant pot soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the u.s .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become so-called superconductors .
life hasn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without her husband &apos;s support , she cared for a sensation by putting him in court and being a lawyer in her own case , and an even bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turned out to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to pass .
my mother called me a few minutes later .
so in minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories and ensured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is her hand so warm and the rest of her hand so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; they didn &apos;t let it go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
you can see who we were and how life has shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manufacturete .
now , i &apos;d like my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of justice .
can i give you a bug in your life that is devastated by every wave that was unconfused , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother here today is in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
so the wires slightly heated and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet my interest in photography started when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my previous preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because in using the camera , the process was planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photos like this : a building site along a much rigged road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it &apos;s a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones give birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like you could have , in a photograph .
photos where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more amazing if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i see them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a particular way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we overlist our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but if we combine pictures , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same lighting .
and these two pictures satisfy these two requirements -- shot at the same height and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by adding color , contrast and brightness to the edges to the individual images , adding photographic scarcity , like field depth , relaxed colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed from photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a fishery trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconstructed them , repaired them .
and yes , i actually colored the house on the top of the island to make it look swedish .
so to get a realistic outcome , it goes from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is planned very well .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limimics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point is that we stopped talking to our patients .
now you &apos;re all back on your way back .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major listener .
and she doesn &apos;t do particularly scientifically -- she introduces a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects fail : because we stopped listening .
this is my wireless scale . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
it &apos;s got a button , it &apos;s got a button .
and every morning i jump on that .
and yes , i have a task , as you may recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilos .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be able to work again .
and they &apos;re also called off my general doctor so that he can see where my weight problem is , not just the moment i need cardiology support or something , but also looking at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i &apos;m jumping on my wireless scale , and people are talking to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer pressure , the peer pressure to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to remove the patient &apos;s smoking .
but it could also be used to get the people out of their chairs , and get them to play some kind of game together to better control their health .
the next week , it comes to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure detection device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with other people , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , not only can they take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that we face , and the cost of health care , double demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect first data to be able to collect in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
do methods that are easy to use , and start to hug patients on the team .
and they can do that through such methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we were asking around , and no one knew .
well , of course , in a way , these accidents are restoring the debate around the value of science and engineering on these limits . it &apos;s easy to reject .
no one knew where the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where it is , &quot; because sometimes it &apos;s closed during business times , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we designed an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next couple of weeks , also your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and from today , we want to introduce this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to get this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our borders is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or somebody else , you can find an aed like this .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
for example , these could be copyright services , or technicians , just to make sure that the signed aed is still in its place .
please help us do this , and try not only to improve health , but to take care of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it gives crowdsourcing attention .
the spirits can be sucked up under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance to overcome the soul of living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my closing words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i suspect , when he defused the useless experiments of his application , his apprentice was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind to assume that our scientific ideas are finally valid , that our triumph is full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a quick video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it may take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a couple of years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is pretty much everything they hate , and we let them work in the government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peace scorps for geeks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with urban administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to city users .
and they developed great apps there , working with urban employees .
but what you really do is show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freaking it up when he &apos;s tuned in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at branding when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
last year , we had a team of fellows in boston in the zuge the code for america program .
they were there in february , and they were doing a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael obese , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freeing the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to shake it open when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my job , but it &apos;s more than that , of course .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s rapidly spreading .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt the tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them to release the bureaucracy when it snows .
we now know nine cities planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
it usually takes a few years to get the software .
we had a team that was working on a project in boston last year that took three people two and a half months .
it was about a method that parents can find out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it went over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that the taxpayers have cost two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app , which is written in a few days , and then spread from rare , is a kind of a shot in front of the bug to the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should be .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a wired institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a large community of people who make the tools that we need to actually get things together .
it &apos;s not just code for america fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair her .
however , recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you think about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change is happening .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was mainly about voting people in a office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities , about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called pray , pray , love -- which , unlike all my previous books for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , you all -- you &apos;ll see that the people , the government , are calling for a lot of different problems , including that a thylacine is in your house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is coming off ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m being treated as if i was refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them removed ? &quot;
but what happened to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everyone can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- refused to the demise !
turned the garbage ton on the page . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of the government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government was playing a central role here .
she connected these two people .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white people go to church and talk about god .
for example , you &apos;re worried about me and saying , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have linked them to government services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
call the creature , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the other &apos;s input .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject ourselves and we expect the government to reflect our values and fulfill our needs , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a farther ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , something that works against us , something else , and then we deployed ourselves .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we need to rely on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupythesic movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the reform of finance .
this is not politically active , this is bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave to our children .
okay , that really makes a lot of courage .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that you have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually do something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that has grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing its voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting to talk about who &apos;s allowed to talk ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so when you &apos;re faced with the problem of the government , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that , over 20 years ago , when i first told when i was a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that could be to open a fire hydrant , to hunt a turntable , to turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of the government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we will not improve the government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question that i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , will we be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to succeed ? &quot;
my role is , usually , to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up will be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here under friends , i would tell you what i really think . and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can &apos;t keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by just showing you a single boring slide .
... if you could just show the slide for a moment .
this is a slide that i just randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows a data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like some other people , that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a power scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid to kill the humiliation of a statement ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights again .
a little bit more bright , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of technology that i want to show with a graph , then the graph gets silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be on the semi-logarithmic scale very unreasonably , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if transportation technology was moving as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi overmorning , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
don &apos;t you fear that you &apos;re going to run this craftsmanship and you &apos;re never going to get something out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a flattered dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it doesn &apos;t go so fast .
this has never been done before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale increases exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either this becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
it &apos;s kind of like that .
now , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
like that , you know .
so the question that i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be like ?
what is this new state that the world is starting to take on ?
because the transition seems very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , there was the future somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still the year 2000 .
we don &apos;t go further than that .
so in other words , the future has declined by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for this is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make any sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple mapping of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , you know .
now , i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we need to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into some billions of steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of chemicals floating .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did that .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was smashing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contained a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
all those who were like this started to divide .
yes , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet were not alive in the present sense , because every single one of them was just a little random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so every droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for growth of optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside , and divided faster .
so these tendencies were going to survive longer , and they were expanding in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is that when these droplets learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way that we don &apos;t quite understand , these droplet peaks have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , in this insane , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing is that this kind of information was stayed the same over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came from .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same writing .
and every being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we are so far that , just for pleasure , we can write even the thing in this code .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white pulse here , which i &apos;m trying to keep away from security workers in airports .
and there &apos;s -- what i did is i took this code -- the code is made up of regular letters that we use to symbolize -- and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i enhanced it 10 times .
so if someone wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i was actually an egoist , then i would have written them on a virus and released them into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the defeat of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would know .
and that &apos;s what made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , and that was that these cells started communicating and sharing information so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin , and they &apos;ve written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have lots of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reason of communities , which were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
now the transition place is where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which are together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we are also such a multi-cellular community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer put on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level in which evolution occurred was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step was happening within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i wonder , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning has happened within the span of the lifespan of a single organism , rather than about this evolutionary period of time .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a certain fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time it ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas before that , hundreds of thousands of years ago , this information had to be learned by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could be within a time-frame learning .
what happened after that was that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most subtle version of this kind of communication that we know is human language .
it &apos;s an amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving gruesome sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this allows us to work as a unified organism again .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , the way we hold data , the way we process it .
the invention of language , for example , was a little step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video conquers , cd roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so , evolution can happen in the time span of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to do the work that they feel they &apos;re doing ?
you also saw tys &apos; little evolutionary example where he showed a little evolution in the convolution program right in front of your eyes .
so now we speed up the time scales .
the first steps of history that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds on itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something strengthens its change speed .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative corporations that they make us insecure about each other &apos;s state of mind -- in a way that other jobs don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain abstract level , we give this machine , and the machine makes something out of it , which is far beyond our capabilities , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even understand yet .
one method which is particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond section .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that evolves from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please do all these randomly chosen instructions , do all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that are closest to my prescriptions . &quot;
so in other words , i &apos;m first defining what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so find programs that can be the most likely numbers .
of course , the chance in randomly chosen instructions is very small that , by chance , they &apos;re just going to be numerous , so probably none of the instructions are going to do this .
but one of them may be lucky enough to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that are closest to my prescription .
store them , delete the rest .
now , reproduce all the remaining ones that the numbers have best sorted .
and it &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how do you do with it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that came from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluate them again .
maybe bring in some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can make evolution go through the computer within a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sorrow numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so if i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re oblivious and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because your life depended on whether you did the job right .
i sat in a 747 together with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and said , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an development process is not optimal when it becomes too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken from the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the chemist group over the centuries did not get the reputation of alcohol &apos;s manic depressed people .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibility of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we now use these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it &apos;s getting faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we &apos;re taking off .
we got to the point where the analog is , at the time , when one cell organisms evolved into multi-cellular organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re doing here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of reputation , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this reputation , mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else is coming after us .
i find it very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singers mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos , mahabharata .
if we wanted to travel at the time , we would jump into a car and swirl over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds just from the 20th century , the young and often by your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince had thirst , he took a bow , shot in the ground and water came out .
now we &apos;re doing this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it scared me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and a tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my imagination .
and even those who were not actually suicide seemed to have been really neglected by their talents .
and it occurred to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were keeping us from dreaming .
they kept us inspired by being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to enable magic rather than killing it .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , animation , sound and touch .
storytelling requires more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya now , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
there &apos;s a letter coming down for me , and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i don &apos;t mean magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found very exciting .
so here you have to dump the ipad and get the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be in a single marble .
and so here every book and every world becomes a little murmur that i &apos;m drawing here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows itself in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very time-consumed .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody say that , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow we &apos;ve inherited the notion so much and collectively accepted that creativity and suffering have somehow come together and that art , in the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymph , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in the chambers of indras for thousands of years in an old bold book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that is confronted with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , in their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect images with the camera of the ipad of natural objects .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , boxes and shells .
somehow the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter and tag it .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photos that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you actually took .
there are a variety of ways that magic can connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you can use the video of the ipad and see , through augmented reality , an animation of elevators that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with just one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social building settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short run here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things here that have influence in the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and power that it wouldn &apos;t otherwise have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a gun , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trance-state , the glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to affect the body in a way that it will stop when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them take over in the next century .
it was also the origin of a lot of arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery was very strong in her view of the world .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe . then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
it was something that was done that was always wanted to be close to them .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative encourages .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went into the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother sat at the end of the room and stared at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and she came over to me , and she took me by the hand and she said , &quot; come , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
and i know , definitely , that for me -- in my situation -- it would be very dangerous to start , sort of , sickering down this dark path of conjecture -- especially in the context that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i will never forget it .
she took me out , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not saying it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promised , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re something special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i will never forget that .
and then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandmother . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; the next thing you &apos;re going to do is you &apos;re going to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on the land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and took this sixpack of beer with a nap , my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer , and he offered one to my sister , and she accepted , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , we &apos;re going to do this today , you &apos;re going to do everything else we &apos;re doing .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked me in the face and said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still doing crazy because of the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is being evaluated by the world as the work that came after my last book &apos;s success , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t .
this one may be broadly transmitted .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m standing that i &apos;ve never drank a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i say that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t .
of course , my grandmother would say to all of their grandchildren that they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol infected diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to take care of .
i &apos;ve tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in jail .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged with currency or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , there &apos;s despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned to currency or with conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , abandoned in the prison , or with conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also disposed by poverty .
we have a judicial system in this country that you &apos;re much better treated when you &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be quite satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost the contact .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start at 9 a.m. , gin . and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling the right to vote when they &apos;re sentenced .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their voting right .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as before the act of voting .
silence is devastating .
i advocate children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , there are lifelong sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i put people in death cells .
the question of death penalty is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is : did a human deserve to die for a crime that he has ?
it &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other point of view is not : did someone deserve to die for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we found for innocent , that was discharged and discharged from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i met , the safei was from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern columbia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly on an airplane if for nine planes to pick up , one would fall off .
but somehow we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after a while of reflection , it seems to me that to continue to write , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in our nation &apos;s history , we have to do with terrorism , after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the racism and decades of racially-motivated submission and apartheid came .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a safe distance between me and my very natural climbing about how the reaction to the written will be .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand the meaning of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re always bumping into each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the rapport is not overcoming without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve been giving some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , they can never be there . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models in the last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more sensible ideas about how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it got quite silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever refer to the systematic killing of people .
it would be unconscious of us to consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people do , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be remorseless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we put people in -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , when the claimed black is and the victim knows -- in the same states where the body is located in the world .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult topics , the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest led me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but in the end , these realities are transferred by suffering , abuse , replacement , limitation .
it seems to me that it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about how we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , that &apos;s time to spend , to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development don &apos;t just come from our minds .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-tail-heart connection that i think drives us to be not just open to all the bright and inspiring things , but also for the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , a willingness , to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities have to engage in .
there &apos;s no boundary to technology and design that allows us to be completely human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
she &apos;s going to touch her deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , okay ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she trains two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boykott -- an incredible african-american woman -- and virginia durr , a white man , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women met and just talked .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much like . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what will you do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so refugeing .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative for the same right is . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine divinity spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to humans -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to pretend injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarcerations . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . um . &quot;
the greeks called these divine poems of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then , woman , carr , leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and therefore , you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be a poker .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
now , socrates is known that he believed he had a demonstration that was telling him from far away .
if somebody takes something that they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even who kills someone is not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a basic human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so exhilarating , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not the things that we &apos;re developing , not at our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re only beginning to understand the truly amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose the balance . a story at the end .
descendants of the old tyrannical civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people returned to an isolated volcanic massive rise above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body losem of creative mind , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i &apos;m advocating these children who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the research prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and he &apos;s supposed to be in court as an adult .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
i stayed up for too long one night , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he has to have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic .
this is great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think that way anymore , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a mandant .
and i started with this brief , and the headline was , &quot; contract to treat my poor , 14-year-old black mandates like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that the misconduct of the state council and the police and the failure failures were considerable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that &apos;s just misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up , and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy contract or actually written it .
and to my application , i had not only written it , but also sent it to the court .
a few months passed , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be living in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the household -- that came out and the artist in the work , in a sense , assisted invisible and would design the result of the work .
i got into the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i stepped out of my car , and i went up the staircase .
when i lifted the staircase to the court , there was an elderly black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me in my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i went to the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you have this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
i &apos;d written these crazy things .
police officers came in and deputy state lawyers and office workers .
the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor going up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in the courthouse with a very concerned facial recruitment and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in that disturbed it that the janitor was in the court room .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going far out , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not completely evolved as humans unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that our all survival is linked to each individual &apos;s survival .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want to just say to those of you who see this as well , just say , don &apos;t lose the target out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a people &apos;s decision in this spring , which is actually trying to do a effort to redirect something from the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to have a billion dollars for the death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all pottery deals don &apos;t end up with arrested .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t look at it all for you , everyone knew that you had this unbodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of rape rape cases don &apos;t come in court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put in context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violence crimes hasn &apos;t changed very much .
most of the mass incarcerations in this country did not really happen in the class of the violent crime .
it was the misguided cruise against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prisoners &apos; prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing ourselves off the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that forever bring people behind bars , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of the thief , for a little good , rather than forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a penalty , not less .
and i believe that our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string here to vibrate .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little laugh .
famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pepper spray of the police .
bad cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for this .
every second of the day , our senses are catching much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we don &apos;t care more than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it sorts and goes through the whole information looking for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up very true . &quot;
now , with all of our digital devices , seven days a week , 24 hours a day putting all these negative news , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along and everything changed , and we had this big idea , and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries , and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures , the commands of divine adoption .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
perhaps the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strongly that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , species die , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at anticipating problems in the very long run , but ultimately overcome them .
now let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so that we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has adapted to inflation the average income in the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
what &apos;s happening is that the food , electricity cost , transportation and communication costs have declined a lot of times .
steve pinker has shown us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity completely came from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re constantly increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
consider that a large percentage of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the imperators on earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these are technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , the price performance quotient is doubling every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the cell phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth she goes -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it slows down for none of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic process on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
cloud-computing , something my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that enable you to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccine and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think this was a big mistake .
that was great .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human enemies . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how to use them to solve humanity &apos;s big challenges .
and every year we ask students to create companies , products and services that can , in a decade , be positive in the lives of billions of people .
think about the fact that a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little bit too much responsibility to burden them up a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about making scarce goods out of scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of free power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver brick , napoleon himself got gold brick .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum brick .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plain .
this is why the dome of the washington monument was made from aluminum .
even though aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , hit the surface of the earth .
that unleashes and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations for success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time in the year , they were able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
this was published last month with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar power is six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have water in abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember carl sagan rotated the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that is 70 percent covered in water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are out , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on its way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his engineering , which is called slingshot , which many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator at the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to launch a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology supported innovation that we have today .
and , if that &apos;s true , i think it &apos;s true -- the question is .
and we also saw this in mobile phones .
you know , my goodness , we &apos;re going to get the 70 percent recovery rate of mobile phones in the developing world up to the end of 2013 .
just consider that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what &apos;s expected to us in health .
in the last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the qualcomm foundation the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test in or you can test your blood values .
and to win , the device has to make a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus , which is not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected between two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going from two to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will join the global communication .
until today , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe to come back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to desire ?
and instead of economic standstill , i see one of the biggest economic entities in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they will be healthier by using the tricoder , and they will be better educated by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
what about a sentence of new , never heard before .
how about giving the oppressed , wherever you are , a voice to pay attention and create change for the very first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about the contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really excites me .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to his behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate that from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
and it showed that nowadays , human pattern detection better folds the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , it was not a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant of business guidance in a rehab clinic and was the best protein ordnist in the world at night .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to make us the big challenges of our planet .
we have access to exponential technology tools .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who are really dedicated to scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people are following and applying feathers to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears and turns to statistics and to use it as a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard about before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat is beating 300 .
that means that the player is certainly beating three out of 10 beats .
that means beat the ball out in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was in security .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 3,000-person in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what you call a 400ter ?
that &apos;s somebody who &apos;s definitely hitting four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable , where i &apos;ve talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindness , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your household physician refers to a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
what we do , however , is we each of them , including me , send out into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but no one is thinking about the details of how to do it .
and this is the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldman would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little dawn at the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane quality of creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of any artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubula azidose .
and all the time , i gathered more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated from cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything , and knew everything , or at least as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while until i met woman printer .
i was resistant to a teaching hospital here in toronto , as a woman , printer , to me in the emergency room of the hospital .
at that point , i was proposed to the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for the cardiology council to study the emergency patient .
a process that , as everyone knows , who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always make reasonable .
and giving back to my top doctor .
i studied woman printer , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made heretic sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a smashing sound on both sides , which told me she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart is failing , instead of pumping all the blood further , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it &apos;s gradually filling that , so the shortcut came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis to do .
i put them on , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine that we call diuretics , water pills , so they give the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , he can feel very paranormal sometimes .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my top doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the listener and do what i should have been , which was a phone call in my top doctor to tell him that he had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute more information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at age three and four , and in a shadowy world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the base of the glaciers for 18 , and they &apos;re now spending two periods of each time , nine years , intentionally , to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in their native mother &apos;s lap , now spending metamorphorphorically in the great mother &apos;s lap .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who was now over 90 , but who was poet all of her life , and she told me that when she was in the village virginia growing up in the fields , she said she could feel dignity and hear how a poem came to her .
by sending them home , i missed a quiet voice in me trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacking self-confidence that i asked the nurse who was taking care of ms. printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed up the discharging papers and a ambulance and a rescue assistant came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency room on my way home .
she said it was like a thunder train of air .
and there &apos;s another nurse , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are afraid of this as well , but emergency care is particularly because we see the patients just as volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient that you sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse was asking .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she barely breathed , and she walked blue .
it would roll up over the country .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure increases .
they attached them to the breathing machine .
i was shocked and broken into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to the intensive care unit after the stability , and i hoped it would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered an untreatable brain damage .
her family gathered .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to what happened .
on the new day , they had her go -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
they say you never forget the names of those who die .
and this was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks i made a proposition , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it &apos;s swinging you on vulnerability and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it and gives me a terrible discussion , but when you end up leading the bad conscience , and you swear that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do repetition and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick inside .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you yourself are bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that in such a moment , she could only do one thing , and that was -- in her words , race like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the weighs and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i continued to ask myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , but it was safe .
i started to feel better .
and then on a walled day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said maybe i could feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could be stumbled .
and she did .
she ran to the house like the devil while she was tracked by this poem , and the only thing she did was she had to get fast enough to a sheet of paper and a pen so that she could , if she could go through it , capture it and hold it on the page .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a community hospital north of toronto , and i was guessing a 25-year-old man with a lovely rage .
it was a lot going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always pointed here .
i looked in the revenge , and it was a little bit of pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and even when he walked out of the door , he showed up on his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency room service , and my chef asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her and she missed it . she said it would move on over land and , as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature rake ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s infected a streptococus .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google this , but it &apos;s not an infection of the revenge , it &apos;s the upper respiratory path , and it causes the breathing .
and luckily , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica , and he recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated , and i went back to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve missed two times a blindness infection .
there &apos;s a lot of it already , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that was only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and i don &apos;t think there was any shortage in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one of them i thought he had kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidney , and when that was without evidence , my colleague , in the revision of the patient , found a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluide to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to look at him as well .
and he did , and when he saw a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they had surgery , and they were doing fine .
both of these cases nailed to me , and they asked me up .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but total nonsense .
some of my blocks have happened in the last five years .
alone , shame and without support .
so she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then she said -- it was as if , with her other hand , she grabs it and she grabs it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close up with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can voice the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so they don &apos;t do the same ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard of someone who was talking about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you may hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your mistakes .
if i went into a room full of colleagues , and i asked them to support their immediate support , and to tell them what i just told you , i probably wouldn &apos;t get to the end of the second story before they really got uncomfortable , anybody would come up with a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest of it .
and in fact , if i or my colleagues knew that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken someone &apos;s wrong leg off , believe me that i had trouble looking him in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them -- the ones that constrain sleep deprivation , and the ones with no limitation , the ones with bad results and the ones with good results .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body and took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies attacking a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we banned those who make errors from medicine , we &apos;re left with a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sensation consciousness and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for a first article i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that errors are absolutely inexorable .
we &apos;re working in a system where every day , when one in 10 medications is either a wrong or a wrong dose , where hospital infections are always becoming more and more numerous and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of common errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine decides the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as closely as we should .
and this is the crux .
and all this time , they are culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
the opportunities came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with breast pain .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat him and i give him a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is enforced with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this is summarized by error inevitably .
so if you take the system the way i was taught , and you carve out all the faulty health professionals , no one is left at the end .
when i heard that , i thought that was uncanny -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from rescue assistant to the chief of the cardiologists , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show with the microphone .
and then their pupils expand , they &apos;ve come in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow hard , and they start to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that will enable you to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human , white for his humanity , accepts her , is not proud to make mistakes , but to learn everything from her so that she can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to mention them , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people are filling the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people are also making mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is evolving to make backups that make it easier to find mistakes that make people inevitable , and it &apos;s also possible to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even reward them , and that &apos;s specifically for people like me who should make mistakes and be rewarded for the grades of those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it , to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day at the same time , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing normal values .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you may think he was chasing , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very &quot; ordinary . &quot;
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even i was in my kind of masonry , sometimes this thing was sticking .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos or from other places , it &apos;s not very special .
and yet , we &apos;re still in the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re originally .
the brochures still describe them as pristine .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the shiftable range , the shiftable .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess a lot of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon was surrounded by palms and by some mangroves .
there were colorful barrels of about 20 inches , black carriers , a subway of the bunk .
the fisheries of these bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived very well and deserved in ghana above average .
when i returned 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they &apos;re going to be five centimeters .
they were genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source of mine that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also lucky enough to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my partnership with the introduction of trawling in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fishery meant countries that started 100,000 fish , the industrial fishery catch this rather ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on it , and we made uplifts all over the southern south china ocean , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
now i know it was the bottom of the ocean .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that were connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the trumber pile , were coral reefs .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck , and then it was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you take a survey and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changing . for -- in this case , a hard reason or a soft coral is becoming a mist .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time we started a living .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of debris is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas where they &apos;ve never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but actually keeping us in the opposite of mental health ?
but it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adjust our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it changes over time . it changes , because for people , their actions are natural .
every generation looks at the images that they take at the beginning of their conscious life , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
then the difference is perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a order of change .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him a magazine a few years ago .
and in the end , they just want to get the pathetic remains .
that &apos;s our goal , largely now .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer the way they were .
now you might think that the problem was people who certainly lived when they lived in predatorical societies , killed animals , and who only became aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously an animal that was very common is rarely once before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a lot of animals .
you always lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a big loss .
over time , we focus on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , one day they &apos;re suddenly taken out and , for the first time in their lives , at age 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to shine on the hands of the amazing beautiful landscape , all of a sudden , everything they learned in abstract glory will come back and say , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life was tom &apos;s embodiment of the modern artist who tried to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was different once .
of course , a lot of people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence that they have in a previous form is not the way they would like to demonstrate the evidence .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdote that the report of a captain who watched large fish incidents in this area can &apos;t be used , or fisheries scientists don &apos;t usually be used , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that he was driving on a highway in los angeles one day , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that enables them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do this because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is chesapeake bay simulation .
there were gray whales there a long time ago -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoncup story , why were you so touched by the imagery world ?
because it &apos;s a wax that has been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is at cameron so that he turns underwater &quot; avatar ii . &quot;
thank you .
he went at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often common in inspiration , is very difficult for him to grasp , and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t grab them .
in the &apos; 80s , in the east germany communist , if you had a typewriter , you had to register them in the government .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of that thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this , and how much that would constrain the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , then this page of bright yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that clearly leaves the page to you and your printer back .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about this .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape record .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exist today .
let &apos;s see what really happens in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiev in ukraine .
and online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a lot of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaire , multimillionaire , who have made their money from attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb up this old climb in him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjordan sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegal by using trojans , for example , to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying on an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency frog two months ago the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the site is unknown .
and i would argue that today it &apos;s more likely that we will be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes are going to play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest group of attacks we can see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or by your audience .
groups like anonymous have been up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three major influences : criminals who are doing it for money , hackactivists like anonymous who are resistant to it , but the last group are nations , governments , who are running the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a full-scale certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to sign insolves because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group if he could make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die as a result of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate is , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly prevalent in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign service like gmail , because they know that they can trust more than local providers , and they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff in their conversations .
but you can do it if you get into a foreign .
certificate hacks and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he finished the whole thought , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgencies in april 2011 plotted the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there was notes from a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could -- in a very large scale -- capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters is right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools to make them go against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strajans found , which was a trojan used by german government officials to pepper their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , your phone is pretty safe .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; sorry , can &apos;t you see i drive a car ? &quot;
but today we &apos;re far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strajan to use their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy has to be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write up a song ?
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right we give away is forever .
and do we trust , we blindly trust any future government , any government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete stones were made in 1868 , and came up with a simple idea : module from cement with a set of measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks very quickly became the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in the position to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically compiling stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a key difference : the transistor was just experts .
if not , squawk someone else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re prefabricated to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
that &apos;s not how you can put them together wrong .
the stones are colorcoded .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cables .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can quickly build bigger circles .
they put a blue on a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out , put it in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blind .
add that buzzer for an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of programming , wiring or solving , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn on that button , and it makes the momentum faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a used stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve spread littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that you surround in your everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school .
how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we didn &apos;t have designer with any experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filz , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we risd littlebits , and we gave them some designers who didn &apos;t have any technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh who &apos;s afraid in the dark .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy glue that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t make anything as a trouble , and left him where he kind of came from , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a real , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed a little bit of the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea rescued me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of those pinnacles of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . it &apos;s going to be the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are responsible for destroying the world .
i started to think that i should just join the project .
but then i remembered how tom talked in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view from the manuscript , and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i said , &quot; listen , you &apos;re doing it , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ? &quot;
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and keep your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that -- you know what , the hell with it .
i &apos;m going to continue writing anyway , because that &apos;s my job .
and i &apos;d like to leave you with protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... in the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the northeast of north africa , people have gathered with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours -- all the way to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but over and over again , very rarely , something special happened . one of the performers actually became overwhelmingly .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen such a performance in your life .
it was as if the time was standing still and the dancer was going through a kind of pform , and he didn &apos;t do anything but he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before , but it all fused together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be human .
it was lit from the inside and illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like that happened , people knew what that was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing : allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moars conquered south spain , they brought this practice . the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , that you still hear when you &apos;re fighting and flamenco dances .
every time we think about innate and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old smell of the noble wilden , which in its simplification is a racial thought , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical , like olé , olé , allah , allah , great , bravo , there &apos;s a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and no longer has a fifth of god in it .
he &apos;s just an aging mortgage with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never go back to those heights .
and maybe someone will never call god &apos;s name when they turn , but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite as full of pure if you didn &apos;t believe in the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just think you &apos;re a loan -- from an unthinkable source for a reader of your life , which is passed on to someone else , if you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they being cut by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think for sure in the last few months , working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly anticipated successor of my descended success .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about it is : don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever it might be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you &apos;re set aside decides , for a brief moment , to show a neck of wonder through your effort , it &apos;s a divine !
and if not , still dance .
and , you know , balancing .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of space for this in the malaria swells of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a much more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth itself can only exist because it &apos;s inhaled into human consciousness .
and yet , for you , just for yourself , you have the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which , for nearly three million years , had shrunk the size of the lower 48 states , has declined 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because the warming is frozen around the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s starving , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the whole amount of climate change in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we crossed this critical point .
already claimed in some flat lakes in alaska methane from the water itself .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another shallow seas last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how is it going to happen to us ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat storm heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little child from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-spirit who will be or determine their destiny will become a very different person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of stones that can be worn off .
this is an annual diving flow .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level rises through land ice sheets here , it flows into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adopting .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative iceprint .
and the west antarctica , which has emerged over a few underwater islands , is particularly in the melting .
this is like 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes on the top , which were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a locality of a mind or a bunch of inheritance , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the water levels have expanded .
but if you seal , most drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra was seen .
this is the sink .
and the predictions as you &apos;ve read them are serious .
this auction in the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the disasters around the world have been increasing in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons every day into the oceans .
take a look at the area of the eastern pacific precisely , from the american continent west and both sides of the indian subcontinent , where there &apos;s a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the biggest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build a lot more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia and believed that these forests were there to be raped .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal dustries and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year on the calendars to rate clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i was running around at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow in our entire country in america .
this happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry at christmas was this .
carbon man &apos;s frosty is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
this made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests of the hukuk and the curved heavens and the cannibalic spirits who live on the northerners of the world , spirits that they would be involved in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers are staying in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it to the top line , spending a substantial amount of money to get an advertising on the way to the truth of coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s do a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming is the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean coal technology we have today .
finally , the positive alternative mixes with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all these people teach us that there are other ways of being , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting the earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
you restore america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
restorative america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that stick our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard of , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
restorative america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we need to get far , and we need to go fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid , when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab the hands , take the blocks and move them , they actually learned how to think and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is deeply connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interactions with real objects -- with my expert patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we could use computers that , instead of a mouse cursor that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and put it in the way we want it ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer and develop siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved with your hand , you can perceive each other , you can capture your movements , and you have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them by extending your hands and reaching them .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other and see the enemies of our relationship with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining kinds of interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is designed for the video review , and when i dump it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i dump it in the other direction , it goes backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimeyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so if i put them side-by-side , that &apos;s what interests them .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the indians , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their slope .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to recognize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting color in the way you do with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as color pots , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we overdo it , we can go back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and we want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series , which i do with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that &apos;s a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable letter , and as you try to make words , they &apos;re tested over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomami , as you snuck this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
snuck this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , and it &apos;s being sucked by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trick-filming twist .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table , showing this figure .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he takes a tractor to the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not created a distortion of reality , it &apos;s the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound like leadership voice , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one wants to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat them by just holding a ton siftable to a sequencing sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to put it in .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic ethirea with the discovery of the magical mushrooms in mexico in the &apos; 30s , and i suggested that you couldn &apos;t think of these tryptamins as a hallucination , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then excess effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start to put the lead voice in two sequencing siftable , and put it in a series , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drummer so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the speed in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the barrel , for a little more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as they &apos;re running .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the forefield , but i can improvise them ; they expand or shorter during the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because , of course , they &apos;re denied by an enzyme in the human gut called monoamine oxidase .
and finally , i can shut down the whole sequence by leaning the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better at how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways that we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of tools to interact with digital media , bringing information to our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversation with all of you !
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy that i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be ordered with some other chemicals that the mao denatulate .
i have to get a little bit out of that , and that &apos;s biohacking is about modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been doing this for a few years now with biohacking , and i &apos;ve started this because i just wanted to know more specifically , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned in the study theoretically .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i kind of wanted to get closer to the matter , like this .
i think that molecular biology is generally speaking now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on it , synthetic biology and so on .
it &apos;s extremely important , now it &apos;s extremely important , and it &apos;s going to become much , much more important in the future .
there are some controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s craig venter in the united states now trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
there are also things that have been going on in the everyday world that most people don &apos;t even know , like washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry , are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and the list can be continued endlessly .
and that &apos;s an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now , what &apos;s fascinating is that the betakarboline that are contained in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to potential the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this , from this technology , i &apos;ve just moved on there .
so why now hack ?
most people know this from the software sector .
computers hack , and then in the media it will always be , yes , the hackers will break in somewhere and grab data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it really started like , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
in fact , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be just a access problem , which is how things simplify , so any problem , to ask a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also in the electronics section , there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene that &apos;s done with electronics circuits , all kinds of things .
and now , just moving towards biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinous plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i found it incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
it &apos;s actually only taken two thousand eight shapes , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation based in india , but now has members or active people around the world .
these are a more artistic orientation , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborations with scientists who are trying to deal with these technologies and ask questions and work creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , having a kind of a playful relationship with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the u.s.a network , which is actually more of a forum where you &apos;re going to meet and talk online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re going a little bit more business , and they &apos;re also being asked , you know , the questions that are being applied .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit contract , where everyone can come in .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
children , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with them , they set up a lab and look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia called house-of-natural fiber , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
it &apos;s been longer than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also dealing with an artistic aspect of biological materials and , yes , electronics tinkering , and combining it in a pretty remote way .
a group from ankara , which i met a while ago , which is a group of students who wanted to convey more to the public what they &apos;re learning in college , and they &apos;ve done so on street , and they &apos;ve tried to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that really unites you is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and just so targeted to society , and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in getting you to do this ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology now , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but you ask the indians , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab , these are sort of dedicated machines , extremely expensive , extremely distanced , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , you don &apos;t really have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine is actually higher than most laboratories , it &apos;s really like this .
and s o with this premise then , for example , brian degger , in england , tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure victim , a heat plate , and , yes , such a soup breakdown , and then grew bacteria , works .
so anybody who &apos;s been gaming a soup that they &apos;ve been left for too long has been doing .
i then tried this in my lab at home , trying to expand a little bit , and then bought me this second-hand equipment on ebay , and did a little d.n.a analysis , tried to do a paternity test , like this / d.n.a fingerprinting , back home .
now that shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but .
down here in the picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s this kind of admitted garage with all kinds of labels that the university has been doing , a group in paris that has been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s doing pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who &apos;s also mentioned hackerspace , this one , a kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s where people are doing it by themselves , all the way to large organizations that are starting to be more institutionalized in the form .
so , what does that mean ?
but it &apos;s always the approach that it &apos;s supposed to be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , o.k , it gives us now as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then the do-it-yourself website came from the founder , and it said o.k , we have to meet now , also meet real , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and soon after that , in the united states , in san francisco .
and , you know , it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want to say , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked on a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , his and what moves him , then .
and there , i think , came up with a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t combine that , but that &apos;s what i think we &apos;ve done , i think , has been pretty well done , and people are quite convinced of that .
and we even then tried to bring it back to the academic world , but it didn &apos;t somehow get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 variants at ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest , which seems to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we from the biohacking scene are actually a step further than the academic world .
yes , what kind of projects do we actually do now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland was that we wanted to make what we call an optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , then you can capture little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then in this focus , so , it &apos;s captured like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in academic setting , and we then thought , okay , we might get this one , then we took a webcam , we screwed it up , we turned the lens off , you turn it around , you have a microscope that increases about four hundred times .
that &apos;s what you see down there .
and then we cut a d.v.d brenner and we pulled the laser out and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and unfortunately , it didn &apos;t work , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
this is another project that came from the french group there from paris , which worked , which is pretty cool .
and that &apos;s what he has , you know , a brain wave detection device , like e.e.g or something like that , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how they create their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you &apos;d understand something from plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , it &apos;s been done .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fortunate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this paternity story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating , reproducing , d.n.a , reproducing fragments so that you can make them visible .
so if i do that now , the profilers go to the scene of the crime , they go there , they collect some hairsamples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this are pretty expensive to buy , which are the cheapest to go to four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyarea , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve put two builders in this , and they &apos;ve said , &quot; okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and we &apos;ve just got it out of open source , so free hardware , electronics , assembled this device , and they &apos;re now the ones that have brought it to market farms , and they &apos;re now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world . &quot;
i think kind of six thousand dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a frame where it becomes more accessible .
so it &apos;s a very boring hack , i think .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you put the d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i made them light like this .
so the device that you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , which was pretty much out of the prototype , on a branch like this , put the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure on it , and it was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a rooster , and i plucked it in .
so , it turns out you take each of the 17 variants in the full moon and they sing to one in a different scale .
a tender , if you put the full power with water , has enough pressure , so i think 40 to six thousand bar on it .
and then you can accelerate the particles very enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about 50,000 euros to go up or something like that , and it &apos;s about 50 euros .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
so , that &apos;s what &apos;s going on right now , the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no chance of getting really good at it .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same thing as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it yourself .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be an informed citizen to be able to make meaningful decisions in society and talk to you , you need to have access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to be able to do it and understand it .
now , that doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting tribe .
and that then , under the headwords , firms open knowledge and citizen science .
so , as citizens , you will be able to confront yourself with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who have at least officially put themselves on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
it &apos;s a relatively substantial number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s me thinking there are fewer people involved in it than actually existing .
so i know from some that haven &apos;t been involved .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
and part of it with these hackerspaces , which is to put these places together .
