you know , one of the great vernes of traveling and one of the joys of ethnic research is to live with the people who still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important for the earth &apos;s well-being as the biosphere that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem with this is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult condition of the native americans , look at them as orginial and colorful , but somehow constraining them to the past , while the real world , that is our world , continues .
and that &apos;s at the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , so the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five .
and this is now a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to have a similar spread , and then also very well connected , so that we can get more people involved .
and i would invite each time to deal with it and try something for myself .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in it , you get there .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hi .
so , the fact is that in the 20th century , 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or your technological innovations , but rather than an era in which we were in and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work for people ?
that &apos;s a question that i &apos;m very moved by as a designer , but also in the field of research , and in the field of user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media and make them a very satisfying experience .
because i think that interactive media within us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can recreate those by interactive media right now .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high technology that you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , with our archaic roots .
now what are archaic models ?
i &apos;ve written down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
now , to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
now , in these archaic models , we have a fundamentally natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a second , and i &apos;m going to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since we &apos;ve been able to talk through these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very imagery , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media by definition is nonlinear , which involves the sense of linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we now feel the linearity as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information ending .
now what about the virtuality that is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house they live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that immediately , but it &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re trying to do this on the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , where we can actually do this all the time .
and this wealth of virtualizing the virtual reality , they had to have people in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photographics .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory was going on .
the sioux indians did not stop being less on sioux than they did bow and arrow tasks when the americans stopped being american when they were doing horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge has been called down , and with these virtual images , the imagination , the knowledge has just been passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s right .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at the same time that human beings were also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;ll talk about in a moment .
central tools of information mediation have been stories ever since .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were extra dedicated to preserving knowledge in stories .
and we &apos;re still very , very strong with stories today .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still combine a thousand hours a year with the receptions of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories until the age of the grandchildren .
now we think our love for stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
that goes back a lot , in the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s really impressive is that we &apos;ve anchored in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of the nootka-indians .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what we call lead-map maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in that , of the australian peoples .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-map maps , they used the so-called songlines , or grief thread .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be represented by songs .
whereas the language was subordinated by the subordinated rang .
that means you navigated about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology that topography of a region , and of course that has allowed you to defragment these songs and put them together differently and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the outcome .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from above to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of the political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
what &apos;s happened is that this is a genetically-named machine age .
we used to move in what we call the avian age .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what &apos;s happened is the book , and what &apos;s happened is the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have lost a little bit of god to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous designer at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , so not the television , the internet , and so on , what we call mass media today , that this mass media of our memories have fossilized and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocide , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally celebrated as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what is it that affects our thinking and our memory ?
then these are the interconnected influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they are more and more overwritten over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
so instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we &apos;re no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract language .
we &apos;re not thinking about it in pictures anymore , but we &apos;re coding it in our language .
we &apos;ve gotten used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibet if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the story telling .
still , we are very , very arrested to the story telling as information delivery .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vow age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyberage .
it sounds very space , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage , they bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our ability .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain that a little bit for a moment .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered during the cultural revolution by the kades .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , it &apos;s such a concept that the virtual world recombines with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is being addressed again .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as that sounds , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically into non-existential , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , smart systems .
these are spaces that can respond to a human being intelligently .
all of this needs the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelorwork of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are here today .
maybe you can get up for a second so you can pause with the two of them on the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed again .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the follower of the panchen lama .
this is a game , and i have to say that .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer game , you &apos;re very likely to see that any people in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with any console in your hand .
anyway , they do that in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s meant to explore the outside world , so i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize so much that i have to cut .
you can then explain that a lot better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is that i &apos;m exploring a city by looking at what places have been positive or negative .
that meant that he was instantly killed during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is i see negative and positive zones of a city , and in this way , i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can now look at that .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve learned from the vow age , and that have been so a little bit embarrassed in the machine age that the machine age can be activated again with what we call the cyber age , and that we can , in this way , get about complex , technological , new products , actually , not into the future , but actually come back to our roots .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this bag is a talking sack , and mine is going to be speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her sacredness , which brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but so far , i &apos;m just doing it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so of course i &apos;m involved in the subject of curiosity , and how does the curiosity change the way we think again , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to reply it and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re looking at besides the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often thrown in such research semesters .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research mester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to be wondering why do all of the designers begin to deal with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , more user-friendly , and you have to look at that , which is actually natural to us humans , which is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crimes .
and before the background , i was in the natural user interface design , so the next generation of human computing in the relationship of the human computer is looking at how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe you have to take a look at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , very briefly represented here , then we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth social generation or society form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , tribal society is through language .
that is , you found yourself , by talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , moved into the same cave , or in other areas , cities have formed , or villages and created , in a way , tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no toddler can talk about nature , but we learn it sucessive and proportionately natural .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
that was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manipulating the living language in the form of script , which is what fluid and living is , i start and i &apos;m manipulating it in stone , and i &apos;m manipulating it .
so depending on how i &apos;m carving and when i &apos;m carving , it &apos;s obviously a very different coverage than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but sukessive then moved the script as a primarily medium , and it came in .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today is primarily .
this is just the printing and print coined script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just like a monkey , where adel , klerus and others have said , you &apos;re really crazy when people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and of course , that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we come to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , such a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re doing this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused because we &apos;re seeing on the one hand the new media , socil social media , facebook and so on .
the sister who did this brave act was brought to an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what &apos;s banging on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in lasagne horse meat , and no beef is anymore , or other phenomena , which is , i want to just smash this , and i want to do this .
and these two worlds are just banging , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is rejecting very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not at a local level , but at a global level .
we understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think local ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , possible , intuitive , but also total transparency .
as you know in the village at the time , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is happening today about this expansion of our self through these mobile devices at the global level .
be it that we know globally accumulate and accumulate faster and better .
one day , she walked out of sight to a armband mao , and for seven years , she had to go to a heavy job camp .
as it used to be happening in the village .
now , before the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , what does it mean , what is natural for us , what is it that we might have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what is the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it usable , so that everybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and when , of course , there &apos;s something intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , take influence on it and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you know , you &apos;re looking at it , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s also , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside the self .
and what does it really look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does that mean , of course , intuitively , and how do our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetan can be intolerable , but the redemption of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in the details , if i want to make something usable or intuitive hand-cuffs , which means that at the core .
and that &apos;s where you see that a is our seven senses , most of us think we &apos;ve only got five , it &apos;s even seven , and there &apos;s certainly the next , awake of meaning in the future , and as an extension of ourselves again .
and to look at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means .
but i have to understand , at the core , in nature , when information becomes information , when data and information will know from information , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , manual .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
we see this , when i &apos;m designing things , i can confuse them like on the right side , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of the monotony or a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see directly where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll first think about where &apos;s in the right .
and on the left , just intuitively , and then hopefully that there &apos;s no sugar in it , which is just the salt .
but also , our perception itself , how it fakes us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
that &apos;s where it becomes more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , unshaped , generic view of the world , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we woke up from a dream and forgot that there were other possibilities .
so it &apos;s circular .
a second circle is already beginning to correlate or associate a certain similarity .
and if i &apos;m going to put another halboval in there , we &apos;re not just seeing one more unit , which is circle , circle , and yet , we &apos;re seeing one unit , we &apos;re not seeing more three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
it &apos;s called the form law , or shape psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
the shape law of the nearby , the shape of the continuity and so on .
often in the third one , forget again .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s so exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has been around for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we see from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back up .
that is , they propagate an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that means we &apos;re just going to projieve our vision before we see it , and we &apos;re going to bring that back into the back of our sehedron to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projieved what you want to see .
so that &apos;s there , that &apos;s coming back .
then it goes forward because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and it says , well , look up , and i &apos;m sure if what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes backwards , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how things are going on and what &apos;s happening for millisecond areas of these things .
the neolithic revolution that agriculture brought us , and helped us in that moment , the cult of the seeds , replaced the poetry of the shame through the prose of the priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and overshooting -- just 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who of you know this picture .
it &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now everybody &apos;s trying to see something out of this pattern .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes something .
does anybody see something particular ?
a dalmatina , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatina in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatina .
and further , now you always see it .
the modern industrial world as we know it is almost 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now that you don &apos;t see patterns in it anymore , but i &apos;ve conditioned you in a very short time to see this dog in this confused image .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projying forward to seeing the dalmatina .
i see the dalmatina .
so , very , very exciting processes that , in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s just here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
this is our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times , in which i always do it by employing someone at three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he has to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly wait times on the computer , for example , if i know this phenomenon .
what &apos;s going to take five milliseconds ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time you fall in love with .
that means , contempt , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what &apos;s going to happen .
and sixteen milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that means that the first impression happens at a very fast speed , how we perceive things .
if we ask these countless world cultures about the importance of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
and as we also see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of reassuring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about them that way .
of course , the designers are not just concerned about perceptions and neural processing or cognitive function , but rather of course , the subject of human object-related relations .
so how does a human being deal with certain things deal .
there are some product linguistically practical functions , so formalaesthetic aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where i have to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does someone give for such a little bit of a little bit , where hardly anything fits in anyway , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be on the symbolic level , at the level of meaning , which , of course , we &apos;re looking at as a creator .
back to my real theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , behind , is usability .
usability always means , how can i achieve a certain goal , or how can a user in a certain context of use be able to achieve effectively , efficiently and happily .
it &apos;s more like the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are very aware of the importance of all people and gardens , that they have to thrive in a room , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible usable ?
i can use that directly , or i need a manual , or i need to have a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i do it differently , and i do it more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s more manageable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software that we &apos;ve just seen , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive or not usable , including the i-pad in many areas or iphone , even though it &apos;s far more intuitive than classic software .
it &apos;s not just that intuitive usability since apple is a fundamental economic factor , elementary success factor , if i want to make technological appliances available to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , which is the natural user ínterfaces , for example , are five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softrware , you have to have five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , you just take an hour .
here &apos;s a picture that i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you probably can probably go home four hours more , but your employer , or someone , is going to come up with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to achieve certain things .
so if we go back to the field of software , this is the first command line interfaces that were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
then the next one , which has already been working with nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , was that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
it made it much more usable , of course , but it &apos;s also much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so that &apos;s when i &apos;m a designer , i &apos;m much more likely to behave than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , i &apos;m going to be more and less important for success , and the usability is going to be an application .
the canadian government has not always gone very well with the inuit , and during the 50th years in the enforcement of our rule , they have been forced to move in settlements .
and then if i go one more step further into these natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m going by voice , by touch , by gesture , by mouse and by cursor , i &apos;m faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me to the point where , when do things actually get more intuitive ?
if you get more intuitive , and then i have to put my little friend back here and look , what does that mean , from the point of view of cognition , when is something really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always intuitive for us humans when i have to think about it a little bit .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t want to think , but it &apos;s very easy to do .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use it as a form .
that means that i can transmit an intuitive human action model to a software model and make the software much more usable .
and of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already told you ?
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is called the osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym and stands for guidance , selected , informed , transformed .
that &apos;s what each of you is doing all the time , but he &apos;s doing it unconsciously , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already being exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works in young and old worldwide , and it &apos;s being used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osat osat itself is going to be about 50 to seven thousand times as much as activity , so in the sleep , you find that it &apos;s going to be less often than it is on the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer transaction to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , but now , not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , a action pattern .
and this is on a higher level of usage friendship than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i &apos;m going to be thinking about it as a supervision , selecting as a choice , informing in the case of it , it &apos;s going to be big on me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction , i can also throw it somewhere , or send someone , or buy them , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we &apos;re capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was afraid of his life took off all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
overview : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , and i can zoom out again , zoom in .
i &apos;m going to get the whole overview , and i can now filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because that i can reach things like the bits , touch them , and they come to me , is much more natural than if over hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , in a way , make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to conclude , a and again , giving the clue , designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to help you with a very particular aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you &apos;re a kid , when you &apos;re a baby , is that you care about what kind of divorces you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and touch more or less in the pottery , the more , in a way , your curiosity is , of course , woven .
and the curiosity is not learning .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically translating this whole environmental discussion , global undergoing , 40 years of club-of-rome , into quality .
and there &apos;s a central point about this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , you give them + scale , about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide through the world as amorphous mollus .
the tracks of their sleeps were originally made of fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
if we don &apos;t actually take a phosphorus and give it away .
and what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re looking at something that is actually self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and already , through phosphorus mining in the world , a lot more uranium is being used in all nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , 50,000 tons of uranium has been distributed on our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the waving storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , consume less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way , if i said , shake your child , only three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think about the way we &apos;re going to go to the bathroom , our entire earth is going to be a cemetery sooner or later .
that &apos;s why you think about the weight of the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over 60-percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , and he dropped his pants out of seaweed , and he defeated his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he shaped them into the shape of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms per hectare of 30 tons per hectare , or the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than reformed .
we can , of course , look at the problem of waste .
and everything is packaging or content .
in openly , for example , in the house garbage , 20 percent of the waste is now wind .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of you in the forewind phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the side of the fecalien knife , and when it was frozen completely , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs about the solid ingredients of excrement .
people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s what it &apos;s doing , right ?
he contains the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the skeleton of the dog and improvised a sledge , put another dog on it , and he switched over the ice sheets with the fecalien knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in environmental discussion , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you tell the people to exist , if you say that &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , then they get refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , you say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you &apos;re surrounding , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but no one in the united states likes termites , even though they &apos;re vegetarian .
that is , the ants weigh much more than we do .
that &apos;s how you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work a lot harder than we do , and because they only live three to six months , they correspond to their weight , in energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we were , what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we are at all on earth , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , up to 20 , you want to be here climaneutral , right ?
you can only be a climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the innate people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
fortunately , not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
you &apos;ve heard about it a little bit of overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most striking bio--- yeah agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back in circles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
it &apos;s all about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit in april of 1999 the complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty on earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-land construction , no bioland , no natural system , and as all of you say , that allows our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many of them .
it &apos;s certainly useful to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were shooting yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just like the biosphere was widely discarded , this happened with the ethnosphere -- just at a greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
right now , we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china today , a tutor is still called honeybeds , so to say , yes ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has always taken hold , but has never given back to the farmers .
so the cities had to grow more and more because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep on getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded until they haven &apos;t made the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve made a fragile civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for food to stay until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
the nice thing is , if you do that , so you make agriculture , you make biogas , you know , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , you can get a farmer about a thousand-and-a-half hundred dollars , and you wait for the plant , chicken and pigs and pig and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing is that the crime rate in the favelas goes down by over ninety percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recurrence with its residents .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that means that the crime goes back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 to 50 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been saboted .
you could just throw in a liter of aluminum , and then the facility would be ruined over the years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , we &apos;re not going to have to be very bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they &apos;re not distant at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something about it , you write down , in germany , the best way to do it is in all the sewage systems in france .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the france facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it works through .
we &apos;ve been in holland now over three years .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they &apos;re the countries of someone &apos;s home .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of phosphorus in the world .
opec is a bunch of orphans .
those are six and twenty countries that control 40 percent of the oil supply .
and the oil will be replaced by other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and the first thing to do is to ask what &apos;s the right thing to do .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that are coming back in past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , as the dreams of our own children become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come up with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but in fact , very effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
there we go .
that &apos;s not exactly right scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much it &apos;s being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but completely effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful about life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the enlightenment a little bit better and defend it with it and lose all the materials for cycles , but first to ask , how do you make cycles ?
imagine mozart efficient .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill of open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website is getting 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
at every place you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a trash problem .
as we think from north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
156 nations send our tv channel .
if you walk , yes , every foot pressure destroys the ground .
because the ground is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every foot pressure means that the water is standing in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but when i ask you , how are you doing this with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heartfelt , yes ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so don &apos;t save , eliminate , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , like the people in the high bow are throwing out coke can out of the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refourth behavior , right ?
you can show i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature , liquid .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to die out , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the apocalyptic scenarium in the field of biological diversity -- is barely equivalent to what &apos;s known as the most optimistic scenarium in the field of cultural diversity .
and we do a series of trips into the ethnosphere , where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders , that they will be blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one by one , will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural pluralistic world in which the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s built everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
a television or a washing machine , which you only use , which you don &apos;t use .
just the things that disappear , like shoe soles , like brakes , like authors , have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are only used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things more free of us .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we determine what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of an exception just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either go local or remove from huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put on the pedestrian pile and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of them are composable .
and if we can do it , of course , for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half of all the wastewater problems in the world that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why you help with it , ask people to ask .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve already changed the chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not sure you &apos;re really staying there .
so , help me a little bit .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can seamlessly and continuously raise , and rearrange in any way .
but it &apos;s done .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been represented .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now so that if they fake , if they break , they can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct feedback system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , which is actually made to go back into the cycle .
that too , so in every store , you can get things back .
when you come to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we &apos;re looking at how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the winds again ?
if the trash is right now .
all over the place , these winds are around , almost .
in the countries where people come from .
it &apos;s on the front of the deponia , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside that they can go back to cellulosic base , they can plant with a baby in israel or in tunisia , hundreds of trees .
yes ?
if you take these winds alone , they &apos;re shrinking , sterilizing and taking the powder and planting trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate change , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a area of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s sort of a behavior poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything .
i started an institute on this .
there are a lot of people working there , and they can all get engaged .
there &apos;s an extra clue to this , cradle to cradle , where everybody can join .
so , not save , disrupt , avoid , reduce , not guilt management , but intelligent waste .
does it make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpret .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it &apos;s written that , as an interpreter , i understand me as a translator , in the english word , i understand .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you have to translate the word for text into a different language , but also understand the deeper meaning of words and word slope , so that it makes a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already translation from german to english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re concerned about poetry or even about poetry .
it &apos;s very foreign , though , for layman , what we do to musicians with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes .
you think the composer in the notes has written everything that he &apos;s imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about the same or inaccurate as a verbal , if very seemingly commuted , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the fragrance of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is not to hear the sawdust of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpret has to translate those exact noises of sound into another language , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to give you what i otherwise translate musical , which is to interpret , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equivalent to me with translation of translation .
so the one that the music works for me is kind of like the spoken language .
the notebooks have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . each column is a chapter .
because these are just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the point of the letters is that it &apos;s only when you can see the language .
so , for the learning process of music , you need at least as long as the spoken language .
there &apos;s also a graduate student , whether you can learn it for the use of dogs , just passively understand it , or you can talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s linguistic .
the work of the interpret starts very similar to a theater director .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , first of all , you explore the backgrounds of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the journals , the notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you do comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and no image .
the causes of writing it .
how did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in that .
you think in that time , for example , by looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , you also have a rich knowledge , as an interpret , to know the composer you play more often , and it makes you easier and easier to think in and feel in it .
the composer becomes more and more of the friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece is becoming more and more of my personal cause of playing it .
now that the notes are all other than an accurate record of the composer &apos;s cause , but only a framework , i now turn on this framework to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
so i say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework ?
and the key indicator for this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might have meant .
now for me and for the composer at that time , and what you might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own right now .
it has to be true for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working for so long in advance how to reexperience .
how to reexperience a happy new day , despite the same rituals of life , getting up , breakfast , going to work , so i do the same piece over and over again .
i &apos;ve grown up again a day that changes seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back at home than at home .
i &apos;m perceiving the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me , and all of this is also affecting my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s also wonderful when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , appropriate conversation .
you bring in a new idea , and it &apos;s going to be answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we didn &apos;t do , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music in this way , and then you as the audience have seen the music communicate alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the same way in this moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i do in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and therefore , on my palette of music sound , i &apos;m going to have a lot more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
i &apos;m sure i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , but i &apos;ll get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano course for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jbelgen ude , a well-known beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music high school here in stuttart .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , at the age of three , and so i was already on his classes at the time of my school .
i was 7b10 when i went back to one of his classes and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late piece .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballet was for me .
it &apos;s such a contracted part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
that &apos;s when he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because to me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a segment .
he was already over 60s .
well , with 17 , you &apos;ve just got dreams , but you don &apos;t have any significant memories .
i play the play every few years today , and it has turned for me , although not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
one example of this from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he has translated the seerosis in a different way , as he saw it , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
by now , i &apos;m older than chopin at the age of two and a half when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he &apos;s only lived ninety-nine years .
and it &apos;s important to me to keep looking at the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when it died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as it takes for spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
so if all the fingers are in time and right , as it is in the notes , then sound comes out that sound like music together .
when the error release happens , the student gets the next difficult piece .
hardly spoken about interpretation in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s presto in the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and quiet signs , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know .
but even if you implement these attacks , it still remains just a little bit of technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that is that to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing , because parents didn &apos;t pretend to , it won &apos;t do it by himself .
it &apos;s like learning to speak .
it &apos;s necessary to have your own experiences and ideas of music , and then to get it through another possibility , which is about an instrument , to sound .
so people who have never been singing have never felt immediately with their own bodies what it &apos;s like to make a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and our feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes out of the healthy and the rhythm of the dance .
the continuous record today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
each of your own music is being made up when you &apos;re constantly complained with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask the question , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
in both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to find out whether they can &apos;t , or to learn how to use these little muscles that put the vocal chords right .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they have complained that they &apos;re not digestive .
so i ask , how professional was this diagnosis ?
have you taken a second or a third opinion , as you say today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an outsighted candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to create these constraints for the available place on the screen .
i say , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get out of food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so they don &apos;t have to get into classical music , because they don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say , &quot; do you like it or not ? &quot;
whether the music is too peppery or too sweet .
tell me what you feel .
over time , you also get claims and you want to have a little more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience to hear it actively ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that &apos;s not a pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- that should not be necessary .
a piece of art you never look at has no force to work .
the food that was loved by a chef or a chef has to be eaten and not just looked at or exchange recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults are actively making music , or at least hearing active music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you also play it in blue for me ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , rather than before , a red flower is now a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first beginning of a personal expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , three hundred years ago , or even three hundred years ago ?
now the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano , right now , as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the soundscape possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can bring the sound noises that the stream has had to sound on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
you know , from beethoven , he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra refused to be unplayable at the time .
that &apos;s why composers depend on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so they become audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area .
and also , what you would think of today in the spirit .
or what i &apos;m going to do today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been envy ?
and how did that feel ?
shit .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
so when i come , with my little v of piesel and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot something through my head .
but these are all roads in the u.s.a .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have a big car ?
now , that &apos;s the first year that it loses half of its value .
and at all , you &apos;re working much less than me .
why do i have to afford little car like this ?
and then i immediately think , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable emotions as envy to just disappear .
you can also try this in words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain something to you with this mechanism today , or to give you something that is unconsciously familiar with you .
it &apos;s overlaid at the top of nasa &apos;s arduous picture .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then stones come up , so he locks the vision to you .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what it says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in the sense .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not yourself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
they need this lie to keep a liar , to keep a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or bring them down .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
from that time , an anecdote that you may know is talking about .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait would not look like her .
picasso answeres , just wait .
it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is and how much time you need to learn something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disturbed relationship to the lie .
the artist is sharing with you something , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is going to share with you in such a portrait , which you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
then this unpleasant feeling disappears , and it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
this is actually live on the internet . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and it &apos;s not just in art , it &apos;s also in folk , it &apos;s in mythology , in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility you have from this true arrival , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of this true arrival .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
this is what we need , under politically correctness , to bring over and over again .
we need to have these lie at this point that keeps us deception without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in the folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story about the woman of the bischoir of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of the species and the ancestry of man .
that the man should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , this is not true what charles is writing .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without these liars .
because we have this sense of self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that exists to it , a stone comparable , and whatever , what is unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at the university of washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t make these things .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see what slowly this mechanism is going to resolve and what the traces that it &apos;s leaving that are going to lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me her .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she especially likes it because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnological things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healer at this point . something &apos;s wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral judgment uses the word &quot; because , you know , we should try to replace it through the dictionary . &quot;
once you do that , and then you learn the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnological things .
you feel that that &apos;s the real truth behind the arrival .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about the fire .
he &apos;s interested in the fire .
but there are no clubs that we can look around us , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best thing , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the total vocabulary or a series of grammar birds .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
he signed up .
and again , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and be happy when the fire blows up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better when we show that we are in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can &apos;t do when they lay fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that in the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious that jumps right away without them being able to do something about it , and the things that you know you look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
and that &apos;s just how the words that we use over and over again in the language of political speech .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that if we create these kinds of views where we can go through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present these things in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we &apos;ve found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one we actually know in the unconscious mind that it &apos;s valid to spread outward .
i want to give you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example is what many of you know , and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is kind of a spiritual one , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not congestive , material nature .
and if you have people who are the most convinced that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think about it as if the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not out of matter , but they &apos;re just from meat and blood , something stone , sort of , to the earth , forbidden , degradable , unimportant , dead , yes .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and from that soul , you now think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called the latin , the air thylacine .
and if that air force is cast over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that is supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of your eyes , then you understand the logic that we &apos;re fortunate with , through a lie , to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you still know three of them from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer vision-algorithms have captured these images together so that they have the real space in which these images , all of which are made near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see here elements of stabilized slides or panamic imaging , and these things were all spatially related .
this , by the way , is the hardest part of my talk .
here you need some logic , but you also need the willingness to lie .
that is , lying so that you can just use this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences come in .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted him in particular here .
a third sentence that appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who doesn &apos;t have a soul , he &apos;s dead , he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and this is where you feel it .
here &apos;s the logic coming out in this , yes , in this deception speech .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the chandelier is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chandelier is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are ones that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness is immediately felt , and you can do something with it .
it &apos;s a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and presented .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like he has something to do with it , so we can save our liars .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in summer to show you what i think is really the punch behind this technology , photosynths technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daytime newspapers .
now , you have to take another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy .
this has to do with the fact that we &apos;re going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar who was named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact right in the middle between two great hairs , it &apos;s hunting .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how nature is presented .
equally large forces with the opposing signs resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
only if you get another example , so if you immediately make a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing .
he &apos;s automatically running to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , you also have the sense that there has to be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar who &apos;s called wolf singer , and sometimes you say , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who just happened in the computer with images of flickr . just give notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get pictures of men in t-shirts and in the university site and so on . each of these orange angels represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now we can rebuild the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper , almost every day , is what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of willingness , can &apos;t be drawn to account for his actions and claims , and therefore it &apos;s unacceptable .
again , you have it again .
well , in fact , you have to prove that there is something like freedom .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence is wrong in the first place , as if , of course , you had to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice that , for example , once you meet a human being that you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr pictures , and they &apos;re all spatially related to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit of a political correction .
you say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one that , of course , there are predictors like this , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while they &apos;re busy making it clear that they can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is quite happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he led them to a fiber that he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the way of shifting the burden of evidence , they experience the magnificence of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember them in that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good day .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the performers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea to you .
i have to say , you got it with me , it was hard to talk about my idea at first .
and i might want to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to imagine .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of many , many ideas .
i probably belong to these two nice girls , i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been fooled for this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve already begun to study machine construction in karlsquiet , technical college , which means , i think , kit .
and then it hit me to berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to make renewables , and i didn &apos;t have that in karlsquiet .
you know , i never believed that i was going to end up working at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopold harbor .
they were all called kfa at the time , the jewish one was called kfa .
it &apos;s now called project carriers .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but something like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which sort of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy collective of engineering .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the mouse fell , you couldn &apos;t use the word , because everything on the left was bad .
however , in the years of justice , it wasn &apos;t like that .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in crossberg in the multiverse yard , where you suspect the evil .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called white tronics , and it made wind and sunenergy , and i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what was said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve lived through .
i spent 11 years working in the collective , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one didn &apos;t say no , the vetopcattle , that &apos;s completely crushed you . i &apos;ve been hard to doubt for 10 years whether i really wasted my great engineering study , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve been throwing the money out of your window in your child .
it &apos;s about the weakness .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and then you get a picture where i was wondering , after 10 years , a thousand d mark was that , at the time , basic wages , collectively of course , should that really be the great thing .
and then i stopped it to six and a half , and then we got together with friends , and i became the co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge story , but also there , of course , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , which is , in my mind , and in our mind , it &apos;s crazy again , which starts again with people saying , what &apos;s the rubbish , it &apos;s not going to be , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and that &apos;s where i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how you get a hundred percent renewable .
and i suspect you can see that these are many different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been flooded together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple crazy story , where could you make sense of a memory today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they now have a renewable energy percentage of fifteen percent .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you build more wind power together , the system starts to fail .
this is what i always tell the politicians , when they &apos;re in berlin adlershof , our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculate that was two-thousandth 2006 , the first contacts with the island , but just do the math .
how big a battery would have to be , in fact , to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go on a slide again .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical performance are built on the same basis in the world every year .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the world &apos;s energy hunger , which is happening , is deleted with this el , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of that , three of these things always run , two of them are always waited .
yeah , that &apos;s what one sees at the bottom there is just the load .
we also got very precise data .
and the wind power plant , or the solar plant , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only feed in small quantities here .
our goal was to say , okay .
this one is going to be back-up , and the wind , sun is going to serve the burden , so they can map the larger proportion .
somewhere here , there are a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy per year , so energy per year , not the performance right now , you have to turn off this el .
that means , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can actually take over the whole grid .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re being managed in some way .
no one in the world has done that .
this is in the little style , so you can also serve your rasizer in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing research in adlershof ?
it &apos;s already going on .
but if you want to put together several of these conversations , and they &apos;re going to build a net , that &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to 70-percent renewables , and then there &apos;s this one , the last one , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , and it &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you &apos;re going to make it out of batteries .
that &apos;s certainly going to be an energy carrier , and then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know it or sh , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was recorded right .
you have to go to a season memory , and winter summer , and not just day night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and they simulated wind and sun and the load , and they came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that if you look at the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes a middle straw of about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about four cents a mile .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , if it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would be done ?
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social shepherds .
we were only five people then to rebuild a society .
and here &apos;s the picture again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re doing 20 percent of this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which meant that the power company on the island , has meant that we love that .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric relations of the island at the scale of one to three very precisely .
that is , we first searched to find the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is being connected .
here it is .
it comes from asia , naturally , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then it was licensed out to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt of performance , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we &apos;ve kind of gotten out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same size aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , and actually , the entire dynamic behavior of this network , so in the hall , it looks like this right now , there &apos;s the big battery in the back , here &apos;s all the judges that we &apos;re simulating the net with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn up two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means with which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all of these photos are connected , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see the one again , again , this one , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve been doing since two-thousandth , the hall has been finished , until now , two-thousandth , basically everything that was here between the single system of electronics , to develop software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the battery and the topic and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing is , on this island , you can basically take all of this stuff away today from problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is going to move back and forth at the moment , energy turn , how is it going to go , in the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tilting the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart grid , a big topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , ask about it , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re at 70-percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
you get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through n smart grid , you can build the nets , yeah , you should definitely do it , listen to the fraction , but you will never be able to completely eliminate the memory .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off this el , you don &apos;t have that rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made of loud rotating masses of large power plants , wherever the wave is all around europe .
we look in this network , we see the 50 hertz , and if it turns nine comma nine hertz , we &apos;re going to catch a few valves , then a little bit of a merh steam goes in , then we get back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible amounts .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a long time .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
consider this as the sequel of stephen lawlers &apos; work on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn in two milliseconds with this big battery .
you can see what are the enormous speed possibilities .
and the message is , we have to get rid of these rotating masses , if we are to say , our goals , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to rebuild our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simple , the power plant is running with to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , growing the coal power plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gastores , because it &apos;s not going to happen .
and we &apos;re just trying to make sure that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also putting electrochemical storage on the grid .
now , luckily , there are a whole bunch of studies .
and this is something that grows through the complexity that people use , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and then , for that purpose , people always come and look at our trial , sort of our inseldom test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take a little bit of the future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
don &apos;t go , it &apos;s weak , it &apos;s a child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceived .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we &apos;re going to have the same capacity for electrochemical storage around the world .
it &apos;s going to be very simple , it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is that i &apos;ve been experiencing , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed up with metadata that another person has given in .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , even to put 10 megawatt-battery on the german net .
this is going to happen in april next .
so you also notice that there &apos;s a change going on , and just from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , that &apos;s like an autarke system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanders , they make autark , they have their own little web , which has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is , quite simply , if you &apos;re completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy , which are drilled out somewhere in the world and being brought to you , you &apos;re an island .
then you just use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where you live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we come along , the talk of premium kola is that you can be a collective and use solar energy again , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be quiet a little bit and have a vision .
if someone has been struggling and labeled all these sacred people and told who they are , then my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverses , using photos of other people and making a kind of cross-model social experience with the use of other providers .
and you really have to be pretty tough with it , but i think it &apos;s going to work .
thank you .
when steve lopez , the los angeles times columnist , went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two strings .
many of you will know the story , because steve &apos;s article on it later became a book that was filmed again with robert downey junior as steve lopez and jamie foxx as nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassist who studied at juilliar conservatory , and whose promising career was tracked early through his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as a homeless man on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend to all of you reading steve &apos;s book , or watching the film , so you can understand not just the wonderful interconnectedness that came from between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was finally the instrument , if this pun is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came up behind the stage to imagine me .
he spoke in a very healer and gregarious sound about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and because of the glorious passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct of all of these are the vast , rich virtual models of every interesting part of the world that have not only been kept by escaping or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we came to the theme of music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in me in self-education .
i have to mention that nathaniel refused a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re so bad sometimes , and he &apos;s disappearing for days in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and torture of his own mind .
and in the same way that a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this miserable flicker in his eyes and completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not because of opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose it , that it could sink into one of its conditions , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin , if i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic limb .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes there was a complete change going on .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels of manic zorn turned into understanding a quiet curiosity and grace .
and as a miracle , he took his violin and began to play some clips of violinconcerts after hearing , and then asked me to play them at the end : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedia knowledge of music , but also had a tight personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i know only from my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a lover , educator , excellent , in juilliard , trained musicians .
music is medicine . music is changing us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i understand it right ? your software enables , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used together by someone in the world , to basically connect ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that is inside of us all , our feelings , through our artistic lens , can shape through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches us all , and moves , inspired and united us .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i &apos;d like to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist unfortunate .
yeah . it does nothing but discovery .
i hope you excuse me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tastious , good consistency , rich , a best plate on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want it to create hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem for our chefs has become . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests of bare .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butt , the smiling fish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , i think or bad aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
many arguments about it . fishing plants are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we &apos;re taking tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got a food processing from 15 to one .
that means 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the ocean that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this forage from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that night , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i was telephone with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you type in sentences and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image is .
let &apos;s call it don &apos;t .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , remnants , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s me , actually .
no , i actually loved this fish , because , you know , i swear to god , who shocked fish after this conversation for chicken .
that second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way you learn , the better you know your fish , you love the fish the more .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us .
he came to the table with a bright , almost dizzying white color .
then the scale of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of the guadalquir river .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt wish .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what were basically wetlands .
they did it by irrigating the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they &apos;ve literally transformed the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- bark , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and they completely reversed miguel and his company with ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see are flooded channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , fighting through the wetlands and i &apos;m cheating and sweating , having mud to my knees , and miguel is quiet in a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve heard before , and i &apos;m going to try to make a few connections if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
this is him picking up a rare glimpse .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more of the talking of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had in the evening .
so i interrupted him . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-restoring .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , just half of them are no longer whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
later on , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was like a film director was demanding a shift in time .
and we bent around the corner , and we offered the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet , so far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you bad your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
official faith from all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to birds .
now , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s now become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the tinkerer the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly because of maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s think about that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish elevating , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there .
they breed in a city , 240 kilometers away , where the ground nature is better for the nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly to the farm for 240 miles .
and every night , they fly back 240 miles .
they do it because they can follow the strike white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly to the farm , and then fly back 240 miles in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an incomprehensible premise for the human .
do you do that for the children ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like a fish skin . i don &apos;t like it sucked . i don &apos;t like it crisp .
it &apos;s this pungent , coated flavor .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this south spain restaurant , it didn &apos;t even shoot for fish .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you took a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin works like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is to do the things that maximize our well-being and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over evolution to look at unpurifications . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any disputes . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success at the success of its predators .
and then i realized that when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any uncleaners , he underpins tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it struggled through the system , and it leaves the water cleaner than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and i should do that , because that love story , as romantic as it is , is also an enlightenment .
you might say it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re enjoying . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that make the future good food , someone stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more well-being they have .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it has been the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of plant feeders , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agribusiness just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it a &quot; ecological capital , &quot; which is a craftsmanship , a commercial that quickly ecological capital , that allows for this production .
this is not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of degrading ingredients , but because of degrading resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deep in our water supply , that it would not come to mind to question it .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agrarian industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are obenan in it , and it &apos;s never really produced something good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
this is the one that goes back to two billion years of work experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that restore instead of using up , businesses that grow extensively , instead of just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the good food future , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to leave you with one thing today , the total of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overlap , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns are emerging , and we see trends that wouldn &apos;t have otherwise become visible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram of age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that &apos;s emerging .
and that &apos;s because in the middle here , people are most active , and they &apos;re most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what modern progress gives us .
we can take a step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everybody .
now , when we go on and we rank by age , we say 40 or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and as you go on , this is particularly true with men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminded of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
what we have here is the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it in your room after my talk .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive in in a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught young children anymore . that means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . this is not a big one .
you can jump directly to a certain output .
so if i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m going to click on this , and i &apos;m going to show you all the expenses in which lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything about bicycle bike ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to make the point of view .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , broader , zoom out , you don &apos;t just seek out , or you don &apos;t just browse .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little further with something like what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;ll just show you the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediakatories that are most covered in time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediaset .
that &apos;s just recognizing that if you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and all see together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive oil and 12 balsamicoessig that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music sector .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we surf on the web for the first time , as if it really is a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else , which could be a little surprise .
i &apos;ll just show you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump directly to a specific section .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in on my course in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s how the supermarket is .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this point .
and i can sort of bring back anything i &apos;ve been looking at today .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past , here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic &apos; , here to bing , or here to live labs .
and from here , i can go into the site and call it back up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the file .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the flow of information .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of going from one to the other , we could start to go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and see patterns that would have otherwise been hidden ?
if we can do that , then that data trap is going to make sense , maybe a new source of information .
and then you go to the consumer electronics store to put together a stereo system -- loudspeaker , cd player , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there &apos;s so many stereo facilities .
and instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge of it .
and if we know , maybe we can even pull wisdom from it .
that &apos;s what i stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a heard portion of science fiction .
in my school days , i drove to school with the bus , an hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science-fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts in other worlds , and in a narrative way , my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also turned out that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i was wandering through the forests and collecting &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and beetles and ponds , bringing everything home and looking under the microscope .
i was really excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and select the boundaries of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we went to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can put 6.5 million different stereo facilities together from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
so that &apos;s probably a very good part of science fiction .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this over-saturation with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my reaction was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding backwards of textbook , painted around .
creativity had to get out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth .
you have to admit that this is a big selection .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed quite unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually walk into , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all of what i had always imagined when i read these books .
so i decided , when i was 15 , i was going to be diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let go of that .
i annoyed my father until he finally found out a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my scuba in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see it two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been diving , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of that in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as we can &apos;t really imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , rough human imagination .
to this day , i feel deep awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as eh and je .
so when i went to a profession as an adult , it was a filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell stories to my inner urge , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i constantly drew comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that matched together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my love for the underwater world and diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions were kind of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every telephone provider you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create this kind of liquid water creature -- we took back to computer-generated animation , cg .
what came out was the first computer-generated software surface-figure ever to see in a movie .
the film didn &apos;t bring in money , in fact , he was just playing his production costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found that incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , that has to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the kind of liquid metal guy there , and the success depended on how this effect would come about .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve already played a little more money with the film .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from those two experiences , there was a whole new world , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best make-up and creature-designer at the time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers and so on and start with digital productions .
so we did that , and we made a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in creature-design -- what we actually founded the company -- we were getting very slowly .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was going to push the measurements of visual effects and computer-generated effects into new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made by cg , and the main figures should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole pushed back pretty well , and the people in my company told me that we were not yet able to do that .
so i shifted that , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic extent , a passionate film .
but secretly , i wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , to be one of the last people to speak your language , to have no way to pass on the wisdom of ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
i convinced you , though , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketer for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but it goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , and looked at the real titanic through a bulleye .
it wasn &apos;t a movie , it wasn &apos;t a hd , it was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for this was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and everything .
and i noticed how much these deep sea dives were like a space mission .
well , they were also highly technical , and they were allowed to have extensive planning .
you go into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment where there &apos;s no hope for rescue if you don &apos;t get it back .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , that &apos;s as if i were in a science fiction movie .
it &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was literally obsessed with the exploring of the deep sea .
anyway , the part that has to do with curiosity and science . it was all . it was adventure , it was more curious . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature where we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice for telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had seen before and the science at the time when we saw them had no words .
so that really got me upset , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we went to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiber glass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck , and you didn &apos;t have any means to do it , so we developed the technology necessary .
well , i &apos;m sitting there on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i see planks that are quite similar to these boards , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic device through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjí-vu i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner at each time , i always knew what was going to come up in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over the film set for months when we were filming the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and so your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all sorts of post-human futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we &apos;d seen at the bottom , for example , these deep-sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is the one in the middle -- mp3 players , nose hair trimmer and crème brèe fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was the science fiction influence of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in the nasa expertise council and plan real space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and then they go to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , i took space scientists into the deep sea with us .
i took them and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in these extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could take samples and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually , science , in particular , did space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation of reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that yet in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i &apos;ve learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure now you think a director has to be able to lead , to be a leader like a ship captain or something .
i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of that ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . no trace from fame .
everybody thinks i was between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i &apos;ve made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task , for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that there is . you do it for the discovery of it , and because of the strange connection that emerges when a small group of people form a team .
because we &apos;ve done all this with only 10 to 12 people who &apos;ve been working uninterrupted for years , sometimes two to three months in the sea .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is contempt that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on sea , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other person . it &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a respect to each other .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to use the same kind of leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve the opposite respect of it .
it really changed the dynamic .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
a huge challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
and that changed my way of making films , completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d actually done a really good job of doing these ocean creatures and transporting pandora on the planet .
for me , it was more of a principle of doing my job , the actual process that has changed in the outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the contempt of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i get young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice on how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t restrict yourself .
getting others to do that . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet against yourself , but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in studying , it has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees trust .
no important endeavor , which demanded innovation , has ever been accepted without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and that might be surprising , because my full-time work at the foundation is mainly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion lives better .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than any other person on the planet .
climate change degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years ; we &apos;re going to be raining too much or too little ; things are going to change the way they don &apos;t have their fragile environment .
this leads to death of starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy supply is very important to you .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , to poverty reduction , energy would be far from the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , climate conditioning , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language to the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they &apos;re adding the output of co2 , which leads to temperature increases , and that temperature increases has some very negative consequences , effects on weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect conclusion that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and so the whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 increase and the temperature change that comes from that , and where the consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to close to zero ?
isn &apos;t there a half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to increase .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to be under a three-meter bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down here , to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we need to create changes that will reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have changed it at all , and we need to go from rapidly to reduction and to zero reduction .
this equation has four factors . a little bit multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , the services that every person uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that is emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every single factor and think about how we get this to zero .
probably one of those numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s moving to nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we could probably reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we &apos;re seeing a slope at 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
this includes everything , the food that we eat , clothing , television , heat .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to turn off and use less , but on average , that number is going to go up every year and double in total , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here &apos;s a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and they read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the domestic construction , there are many services whose energy effort some individuals are reducing by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and it &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that is emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get this to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and the service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to have a certain date .
and you say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked it .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , that there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that fireflies were going to be here for my year &apos;s contribution to the environment .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;ve been told they &apos;re not biting . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of gaming solutions like this , but they don &apos;t get much .
we need solutions , either one or several , that have an unthinkable scaling and unthinkable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out time , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a moderate contribution , and if you do better than i expect , that would be great , but my point here is that we have to work on all those five of them , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they shy us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chornstone after burning , under pressure , and then store it somewhere and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent , and getting an agreement for the storage of co2 is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the warehouse question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something , which is literally billions of times bigger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solved , and that &apos;s why you should work on them .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies are generating dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you say , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power plant .
also , these sources are underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and it doesn &apos;t always hurt the wind .
that &apos;s why if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big pricing challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , not only do they need the technology , they need to deal with the risk of the energy coming from where else .
and there &apos;s a problem with the warehouse .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : the ones for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights for everything , and i did that with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so what we need here is a big breakthrough , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these underbroken sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the use .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support it by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where are we going to go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies to work on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , &quot; they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think here in the ted group , there are many who are already engaged there .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies that are doing great things and interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know that some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we all talked one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be canton .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear field ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a great surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
it &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you &apos;ve never been able to reasonably simulate whether it was going to work , but ever since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right kind of material approach , it looks like that it &apos;s working .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head on it , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called the &quot; traveling wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
it really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve taken out the part that &apos;s being burned today , so it &apos;s called the use of uranium .
the drive to the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy to film , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s lifetime .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to get this 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely translate their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we &apos;re using zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to getting it to the rest of it .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency efforts to get reductions along the way , and the less we emitt , the less carbon dioxide is going to be and the temperature is going to be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , is just the same , or even less important than the others , which are the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are many great books about this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through without co2 , i will take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term people will be terrible , between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich country , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a matter of choice as to how this slide is supposed to be .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i going to applicate for ?
we need to use for more research money .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously small funds that are spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market tires , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are being done by government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100th million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor to find another billion , the regularia and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is finished , when it &apos;s like promising , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear , as we know it .
in order to understand that , that means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process begins up and it continues to work down ?
bg : right . now you have to refill the reactor , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and get things out there -- it &apos;s not good .
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that buried it without all the complexities .
and it &apos;s sitting there , and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s finished .
and we are reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the waste : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it on .
and we start by taking the waste that exists already , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so , what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our fills , and it dramatically reduces the volume of waste during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people around the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet focused on a place , and there are a lot of interesting rules of openness for everything called the &quot; nuclear &quot; -- there &apos;s a big interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese did something in the direction .
this is a version of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time-frame and probability of really creating something like this ?
bg : now we need one of these scalable , generative things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then we have 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that has shown us the environmental models that we have to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , just as if their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be best if you could do it several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental demands , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little hard , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as it is , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re basically the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential is to play , so the impact on the country and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re just in front of a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something like that .
there &apos;s a research line called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was who , not when , not what they were doing after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you take the importance of this problem in your eyes , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientist : do you have one or two sentences to convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say that there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and that &apos;s why the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you don &apos;t have later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be me . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and you can also eliminate co2 , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it emitting co2 , i wish it was doing it , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be their answer to the bjorn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the poverty reduction , the reduction of malaria and so on , it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money in it while there are better things that we can do .
bg : well , the actual research spending -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
other things should not suffer .
you get too big money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to finance that . for me , most of the waste is happening .
except , you &apos;re very short before a breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to be more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the stroke that you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful smart students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new flaw is now , &quot; why is the research not going to be discussed ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and therefore he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a mindset that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all the people here , when i say , i really hope that you will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called the marshmallow challenge .
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about 1-foot paths and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top of it .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and even though it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that makes deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in the task .
they &apos;re talking about it , they &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re running around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization . they sketch and they lay spaghetti .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of constantly growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow , and you put it tightly , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but what happens then , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i get married now ?
there are a number of people who have a lot more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst , there are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they produce really droughts .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does this happen ? why ? what about them ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the children spend time being the head of spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fighting .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students have been trained to find the right plan , ok .
should i get married later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have a number of times the ability to repair badly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with each attempt , the children get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most people is about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all questions that are involved .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
1m is the highest i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-reinforcing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see &quot; this team is going to win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of processing .
they guide the process , they understand it .
and that team that regulates and looks at the work is going to significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i give you and not getting a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six , the stable structures .
i was trying to do something interesting .
i thought , let &apos;s bring the poker effort .
so i offered a $ 10,000 price of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
so what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of prototyping .
this is how the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually invest in creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams make cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute of every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge offers a common experience , a common language , or a sense of property , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this kind of simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world , how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a committed sport .
it demands that we all make our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , that the wirelesslan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there was cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that you &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re building : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a better nine at the beginning of my death number .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever made .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we defeated them . phew .
in the rich world , there are diseases that have threatened millions of us before just one generation , hardly yet .
we can look at our kids playing football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on others , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphony , roman , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are the successes of the scientific method .
and from my point of view , the scientific method of trying to do things is to see if it works , to change it if it doesn &apos;t , is one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s all good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world are going to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to really devastate this world .
drinking water , urgent land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we disappear .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we ask ourselves , &quot; should i take that call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think we can do that .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land they live on .
i think we can power this world that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wishy thinking .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as usual .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re on the verge of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds of , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been fighting progress , where we &apos;ve been fighting about these things more powerful , more fronts than now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , so tightly that they can &apos;t be free .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re not right about ?
they &apos;re not right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to find resistance , resistance to what is at the end of the most effective thing in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i was doing , i wrote an article and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically modified food .
same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were going around in a certain way , rather than a random way , had a handle on nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to affect your experience of the football game of your child rather than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type in , we rich in , we eat out , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that confused me like this .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to the point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a matter of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it in a twin way .
we &apos;re talking about it ironically , with little leadership signs , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost faith in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be like that .
you can just call a few names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought were always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get the evidence , you have to take the evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully never will see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that brought the autism epidemic to the maser , mumps , and roman vaccine together .
very scary .
well , studies were conducted to see if this was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccines for masses are falling .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . that &apos;s what i do .
because anybody here has masses ?
has a single one in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 per hour .
but because this hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and that &apos;s something we need to learn , which is very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst minds of humanity .
no fear , no excruciating , child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so i &apos;d like to take you today on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere to try to understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , are these good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
it can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , this is good , besides paul walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop worrying .
and that &apos;s what he actually says .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets phone calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids are going to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take it away , the diseases go back , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children are going to die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about polio ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said she thought i was a little bit too shrimp .
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get a bad idea about what &apos;s wrong with it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have a baby paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning was going on an airplane and flying to los angeles , right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he &apos;s landing and renting a car , and he &apos;s coming to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these amazing ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you on the leaps .
i know you &apos;ve done that because half of americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t make any difference how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows that all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we should not . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of releasing .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazing cold and soul to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we run into the arms of placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and they say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to even choose .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer quacle who wants to treat his patients with caffle procedures .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone smoke and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can stop the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in one country that &apos;s being placed worse than any other disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates , genetically modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study on investment in volunteer age .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersila , every rosebush , has been changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it more closely , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and that stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment acts of vanguard , the giant fund company of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetic engineering for food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid is a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . embarrassing .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they just offer five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this in it .
and then people could eat it , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be beautiful . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now , there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which to choose which to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves : why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence of larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be about time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we go on to the way we &apos;re guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description for what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and go into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow of course never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to go , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but if we get into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , this is something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , as &quot; a deception that becomes real if somebody believes only enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s because the person thinks what &apos;s going on with them is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , there &apos;s when the patient believes only enough , a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
you know , it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to put back , it &apos;s also that the decisions are so hard that they miss great investments in their employers .
a deception becomes something real because someone perceives it that way .
so in order to understand each other , i &apos;d like to show you a very basic , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i learned it from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;m going to explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study ; my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my fault like this .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of him , i &apos;m just going to push my wrist right here .
in this way , you can see that at no time anything is moving , and as long as i press here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually sitting so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closely , although it &apos;s a very simple trick to do .
i think many of you in this room probably know this trick .
here &apos;s how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i &apos;m holding my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger here , my index finger , just moving from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s someone sitting in the back who had no childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right ?
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information is not one , two , three , but it &apos;s a group .
but that &apos;s not really what it &apos;s about . and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s kept there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my finger of time , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick with your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
one year ago , or something , i read a study that really got me right .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why , to me , this was an amazing thing .
and what it turns out is that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue pill and you put a letter on it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and that , although none of them are any pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any form .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red one , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses matter too .
and the shape plays a role .
you don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as the needle .
and none of it has any real pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that makes us a stronger impact .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that is obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from that study that you have to reach the needle when it &apos;s supposed to go to the needle .
this is an eight-inch hut needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up with less satisfaction with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and push it through it , until it comes back out on the other side .
if you &apos;re miserable -- if you &apos;re a little bit miserable -- i did this a few friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost faint .
so i propose , if you &apos;re just going to get bad , you &apos;re going to look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little single-stranded .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other hand , like this again .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s certainly not so stupid and it &apos;s going through the skin just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this kid from barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the anakonda people , believe that mythologically they came up from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is conditioned by the great selection of different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what has happened is this formally presented alternative to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the happiness that you &apos;ve made from your decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my flesh , and i can turn that around .
sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look away .
the people in the back , or the people who see that later on , will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , it would be -- look , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing at all , which is disappointing for the choice they make .
but i think , in this framework here and the intention of making something real out of deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll be happy . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that were published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they gave up about 40 , and there was a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive traps .
second , what economists call oppertunity costs .
that &apos;s true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists to think about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word of happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really quite emotional , it ruined all the experience .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it had ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was connected to a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there is an emerging self that lives in the present and knows the present , is able to experience the past , but basically has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor calls -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it going to hurt if i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memorizing self , and the remembering self is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel in the last time ? &quot;
well , if there are a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and confusing the two is part of the very different terms of happiness .
now , the remembering self is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts instantly .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we get to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s no longer painful today , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who has suffered more from both ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had was patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse recollection of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very generous or great -- but one of them is clear .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than for b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the point of view of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the gut reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
this is going to lead the patient to suffer , but just a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve made the living yourself of patient a worse off , and you &apos;ve made the memory of patient a &apos;s much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a better story about his experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hampton .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
and what a story is about is the interruptions , the meaningful moments and the end .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological presence is true for about three seconds . which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory of yourself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you kind of get the impression that you should count , that what happened during those moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource we consume while we &apos;re in the world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memory of ourselves and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is time to deal with .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory of itself .
for the memory of itself , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memorial self from a living self , and time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the remembering self makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which to choose , then the one who chooses the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon that &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory itself , and you can think of the remembering self as one that kind of sucks the living self through experiences that don &apos;t need the living self .
i have the impression that if we make vacations very often the case , that means we make vacations largely in the service of memory .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we get from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors of blue and green , because the celestial scene of the forest that people depend on is the same .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i had ever had , and i think relatively often about how often i think of other vacations .
and i probably , from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s just an hour and a half .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight to the weight that we experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know that at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug so you won &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you chose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict at all , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think in the sense of memories , you could get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self are throwing up two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person is thinking about their lives .
very different terms .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m one of the many researchers about well-being who has been studying happiness for a long time .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how satisfied someone is with your life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy he lives his life and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone and you were told , oh , your father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about their size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that someone has ordered their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty of how happy he is with his living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about the happiness of the happiness self .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we chose is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t really think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things that we think about life , and if we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask this question , you think that people have to be happier in california , if they live in ohio , let &apos;s say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who are moving to california hoping to be happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more options there are to choose , the more attractive properties of this choice are taken into the oppersian cost .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded how horrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were telephone a few weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something you can let us participate in , because you have a few minutes left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we &apos;ve found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that , under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very big sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw these flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t raise you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , of memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make the happier you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american pursuit , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this fund seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , that the country , generally , would take a finance like the seriously and make policy based on it ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness in politics .
recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are trying to recognize that they should think of happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore lifespan , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think and whether you think about the memory of yourself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a point about living now , and maybe doing things slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as to save it in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
right now , we spend three billion hours a week playing online .
but an important point that he makes is that whenever you decide for one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is just the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time it took is 21 billion hours a week of play .
this may seem a little bit miserable , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so vital to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language , and a marriage prescription called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it &apos;s going to be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classical expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , deeply immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re playing , you &apos;ll see some nuances here , the eyes that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . great . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so extremely positive that you didn &apos;t even know it was possible .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get there , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually able to do something like this . this is an epic victory .
three : escalation of expectations .
this is a player in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to look at on millions of faces of problem-solvers all over the world , when we attack the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are on the verge of all the adversity of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it &quot; in life i &apos;m bad , &quot; and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? ok .
this is me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. , why we &apos;re better at play than in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , although that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in games . i mean , very well in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired by collaboration with each other .
this is what struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us turn into our best version , at any time and immediately , are willing to help solve the problem as long as we need , try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel overwhelmed . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games , just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories so possible in online worlds .
so first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a world-class mission , immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
you never get a job that you can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of your skill , so you have to get very hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and you twist . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are tons of staff .
wherever they go , hundreds of thousands of people working with them to finish their epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingernap , you have employees ready .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a way , and they bought them , and they were badly adapted , and they were incredibly uncomfortable , and when they were wearing them long enough and often washing enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
if i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one talking and plus-one crazy idea , plus 20 crazy ideas .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like the world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time that we prefer to spend our whole time in these worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players spent 5.93 million years trying to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to get upright .
so i went to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we &apos;re currently spending playing , it just makes sense when you &apos;re looking at the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , because it turns out that by using all this time to play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as people .
we develop into collaborative thinking , cardiac creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person in a country today with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online play to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for children in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total amount that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the degree of high school -- if you never miss .
so what we have here is a complete parallel education way of learning about what it means to be a good player , like anything else you learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , lightweight or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a random subject to the 21st year , we will master in it .
we become so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have sort of unprecedented human potential .
so many people now in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to get buttons or friction ? stone or acid washed ?
the game industry develops consols that save energy and work on mobile phone nets , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games are mastering us .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of social nets .
do you want to do jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we people like more after we play with them , even if they defeated us miserably .
the reason for that is that it takes a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that someone will spend time with us , that the rules will be held , that we have the same goal and stay with the game until the end .
so the interaction enables the growth of bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft-player is playing 22 hours a week , sort of , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we &apos;re relaxing or not doing anything .
we know that we work optimally as human beings when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
you want to cut a long way down , cookie , blah blah blah ... &quot; and so on he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe of measuring planetary extent .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in the right light , and you all know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put together more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these large houses where , because of the mischehen , six or seven languages are spoken , but it &apos;s that you never hear somebody who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a folk scientist .
his work is great . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness less than a mass emigration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i design games , i &apos;m a little bit hyperbole .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
you can get more powerful social ties in games than in real life . you get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s completely logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start to turn the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that is 2,500 years ago .
there are these ancient cubes made out of sheep . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep needs .
and these were sort of the first of people developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games have been invented .
herodotus were invented games , cube games , in the kingdom of lydics during a famine .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
there was such a famine , supposedly , that the king of lydia decided to go to a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game and agreed a national strategy , and on one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the cube , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
in the same way , i think we &apos;re going to play games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get rid of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
herodotus didn &apos;t get any better after 18 years of famine , so the king decided to make a last cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydics and they went to search for a new home , and they just left as many people as there was food to survive and searched for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrussels , who later formed the roman empire , have the same dna as the old lyrics .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what famine might be .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try to explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people by playing games by escaping into games for 18 years , and then having this embedded and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the entire civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cubes for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i &apos;m going to take my 21 billion hours a week .
we should overcome that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems of the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question i &apos;ve been doing in the last few years at the institute for the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what was going on for a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want to do is create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then empowering people to get this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories and we give people the opportunity to achieve them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and create people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing it since then over the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have kept the habits in play .
so for the next world-class game , we have a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people have left only 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality system , &quot; of course .
when they came to 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we almost like a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream team . &quot; you have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-beaches , and only together you can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 . it &apos;s a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social transformation , &quot; in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on it . we have &quot; level up &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from this together to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to finish .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to get close social nets , urgency optimism and desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play together meaningful games to survive on this planet for another century .
and i hope you &apos;re going to design and play with me like this .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let &apos;s start the world-changing games !
and so compared to what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had been disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago when i was writing a article for italian wired .
i always picked up my synonymous dictionary when i was writing , but i was already ready to work on texting , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked at what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; crushed , helpless , useless , destroyed , abandoned , mutilated , wounded , screened , scraped , abandoned , scraped , impotent , castriped , paralyzed , gehandicapt senil , old age weak , pulled out of traffic , refined , made , broken , counted , injured , useless , weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful .
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh first , it worked so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; court , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading and collect for the first time after this accidental wordstream and the emotional shock associated with it .
of course , this was a balanced , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and form my self-image outside of my family environment , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god , i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen and then you start talking .
adding options to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how well these possibilities are going to be .
if i took this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m celebrated for the odds and the adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself the online copy of 2009 , and i expect to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words are shooting me under &quot; near antonyms &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , really believed that the language of an escape has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking out loud can also manifest .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to say that a human being is mindless as a child could be enough to restrict them and to give them ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be nice to open doors to you ?
a man who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s an italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he &apos;s always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly , infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles . and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i &apos;ve even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. and tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day , he saw me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and gnadenless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to rip one day of these tapes .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you would not know what this is all about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so i do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do with the prospect that the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital was going to be in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as a naturally powerful , powerful and atlethal person .
this is just an example of a lot of how adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the already quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine anything that we all wish : to allow each individual to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is going to follow the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
from the medical standpoint , of course , you can say that my legs , laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and develop beyond the limits that they &apos;ve set their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , give people a sense of identity , define themselves in their own ways , and orient themselves to the world &apos;s groups that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever that there has been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- that &apos;s an interesting story , because people always ask me to tell you about how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to admit to you : this sentence has never adapted to me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with adversity lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being coined by the experience that i had , as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the possible falling of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing , of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
there &apos;s no obstacles that we need to embrace to deal with our lives better .
there are just a likelihood of our lives .
and i tend to think of adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make an impact at all , or put down the severe of the fight of a human .
there are wizards and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is going to do it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with vienna or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love , from fate strikes , but also preparing them to be good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our children , if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it was all better than anything worse than anything worse , it was possible for people to experience a pleasant surprise .
you have to be clear about two things : one , the medical fact of being amputated and one , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability that i had to deal with is that the world constantly means that it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who are at our heart and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even give them a projection for quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t actually have the basis of someone being disabled .
maybe the concept that we have right now is just looking at what &apos;s broken , and how we fix it , for each one , a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being , and not perceive all of its forces and its possibilities and recognize them , in addition to the natural struggle that they might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a human being who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention .
we should not deny or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we get them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the wizards .
i might be more interested in realizing that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome wizards , but that we are open to embracing them , to grab them on the opf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is that things are as good as you expect them .
and maybe we &apos;re able to see adversity as something natural , coherent and useful , and we &apos;re not going to feel that way through their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out to something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its species , and not the most intelligent of its species , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflicts create creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that the human capacity to survive and flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to turn through conflicts .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest human abilities .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut out of when we really get tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of adversity is , a perception of the icon , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give wizards a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
you &apos;ll never be surprised , because your expectations , my expectations , are households .
maybe we can think of adversity as a change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage that we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if you really existed ?
i don &apos;t think so much .
it would be great if we could take this paradigm of normality to another set of possibilities , or strength , and actually swap it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen found out that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that 60,000 years ago , the neanderthals were carrying older people and people with severe physical injuries , and maybe that &apos;s because the life experience of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they all came for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up into a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a seffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her belly to her mother . &quot;
oh , so that .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i was typical , came too late to my birthday two weeks .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i had just a few toes on this and a few toes on the other feet , he was the one who had to bring the bad news to the stranger .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other children , or that you would never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i was traveling with the scrap finders in the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my sports victories , and he used this clip to teach his students , medical students from the hahneman medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize how critical this factor can be for a person &apos;s quality of life .
and dr. kean said , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they &apos;re not always told something else , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids with themselves , then children can do a lot . &quot;
look , dr. kean has changed his mind .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone does it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me when i was 15 years old if i had swapped my prosthetic legs out of meat and bones against legs , i would have not shifted for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not in spite of these experiences .
and maybe this change could also happen because i &apos;ve met so many people who have opened doors to me , instead of encountering people who wanted to constrain me or give me an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how they can manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that , and for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves up doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to produce something that is in one , to tickle the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes that i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who have been peaceful for the first time in 1958 .
but defeating is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call out now ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into all schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided after grades .
and the a students get harder to test , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time , gave students a &quot; enough &quot; note &quot; very good . &quot; they were told that they were very smart . and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that the reverse students were told that they were only sufficient .
and that &apos;s what it was like after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- except for the students who had failed the school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t informed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jean , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-on-one students , and they were the students with the grade enough , and they were teaching them something and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no hope . it &apos;s nothing more beautiful . it lacks our natural , childish curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human spirit , hoping to continue to find ourselves and other people around them beautiful , curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i &apos;d like to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the bow , but the god who only knows four words , and he always says , &quot; come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be more fitter , more powerful .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask , who &apos;s responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of them who &apos;s been looking for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if she could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose to make a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to read that , as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is all this education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor to the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology makes no sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn out your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you the permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make sense of you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it sufficient for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve had a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials on the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period , there were perhaps 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and left .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for errors .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and we can take the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferent from what comes out of the pancreas .
and speaking about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut leads more bacteria than it does cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderful hospital-friendly environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish without any effort at all .
and so when people make decisions , and even if the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria to go with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they care about their lives .
they help digestive essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what will come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 trillion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of creatures , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multicellular organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just measured briefly ; the animal kingdom , like a single bar ; and human life , a little notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a ninth in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : most of the existence of life in solitary organisms , each cell divides , and all of the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time when multi-celled organisms began to emerge , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body is deprived .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies occur in evolution at the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at that point , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then when they have to explain these experiences , they think it &apos;s their fault .
he opens the door .
it &apos;s a beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and she says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and generation after generation .
and so the image result is that we &apos;re getting better in general , objectively better , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i have evolved like boster rockets to send the genetic questioning to the next stage of the orbit , and then let yourself fall into the sea .
i think we all would understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s only the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there , which are thermophil , and by doing so , they survive the hot vapor if fish were there , they would have vacuum cooked fish , but they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean , if we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and most of all , as we look forward to the next phase , i would say , there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to move forward .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason for that is that , first of all , through medicine , we &apos;ve managed to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been chosen and been removed from the population .
and second , we as a species have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us precisely and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re walking and circulating and mixing so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it &apos;s going to be a traditional kind of evolution , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument , here , is that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a species of distant planets , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a compelling , fascinating and scary possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that isn &apos;t just natural , but led and decided that we were an individual , in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice for more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide to do .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to do genetic adaptations in the body , to cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or to eliminate cancer risk or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes are going to be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow , which is better than choice .
so the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in drone to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality to be that there &apos;s going to be the 1,000 dollars of human genome , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who , independently , developed techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- which frances arnold calls direct evolution .
a few years ago , the laser prize was awarded to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research in which he took a grown-up skin cell , a fibroblasts , and by manipulation of just four genes that induced the cell to bring it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially is able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect themselves , but can also serve immunity to other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza , which has been grown into the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the egg or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophilia , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technique , the same engine of science that can allow the change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the capability of a ken of jennings , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the water machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed by alt-style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time when choice improves our well-being .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or your grandchildren , need to deal with .
do we use these decisions to shape a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or are we going to selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others of us ?
are we going to form a society of thickness and uniformers , or robuster and multilateral ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop wisdom , and master the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good or in the bad , and before you might think , these decisions are going to be up to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you human skills , or another one that helps wheelchair users get up and go .
now , as a baseline of question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a baseline of the question of thinking about it , what makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies , the material is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they &apos;re putting on in the morning and that gives them extra strength and will continue to increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about american soldiers on average , which is about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the request that they should wear more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal cord injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal cord injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of you , whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design allows you to pick up deep , to crawl , and to perform highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and persistence .
we &apos;re so far , with our industrial partner , to introduce this device , this new exoskeleton in this year .
so it &apos;s true .
so let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair driver , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people around the world who are in the wheelchair .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injuries who were in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , &apos; 30s , &apos; 40s -- were hit by fate , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose numbers multiply .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brain stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since it &apos;s been , i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought that we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that she has not been able to run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elegs .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches , the signals that are sending back to our onboard-computer , which is attached to your back .
here are also batteries , the engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints , moving forward in this very smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and in best form , when a monstrous pure tree paralyzed me during a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor walked into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;re never going to be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steals every five little hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have enabled me since then to learn how to ski , to climb again , and even ride with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the life of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt told you yesterday about how these more expensive and difficult to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman in a volunteer delegation , the fire .
well , in our city , in which volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be pretty early on in the fire station to be able to interfere with .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the brand site , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to get in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the main man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner of the house , who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the sleeping train and barefoot under a screen out in the streaming rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go to the house and save the house dog .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw down shiny photos of the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or a lawyer who could now tell the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go into the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , you &apos;ve got to go by the fire , and you &apos;ve got to get this woman a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i had hoped for , but i went -- up the stairs , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who at that point were pretty much ready to get into the bedroom to a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey back down where i met my enemy and the beloved dog on the front door .
we wore our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fireman got a letter from the owner &apos;s home , thanking for the brave deployment of saving her house .
one of the things that &apos;s been estimated in kindness : somebody had even brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness on a large scale , but i also see the philanthropy and the mutation of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either come to a remarkable success , or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now give it .
serve in a soup kitchen , tidy up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us worse than that .
not every day will give us a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day offers us a chance to change one .
so go ahead and save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where women run the prescription with sex , say hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relativity .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the old-growth forest of congo .
if something of what enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would people &apos;s lives be improved , but our dignity would be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve overstated this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimps are led by great , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really have come up with something , because this leads to a very tolerant society where lethal violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese certificate forest , and they &apos;re hard to access the observation .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the depiction of a violent argument that has been raging for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement rating .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree is that you can &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos that are left -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they also have a common , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules of conflict and social angels .
i &apos;m not saying that would be the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love to play their lives long .
play is not just child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to connecting relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make sure that everybody is doing better -- not just the poor -- because all this great selection is going to plain us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that holds us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage right out of the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a highly developed person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the ideal wealth of bringing new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game demands both trust and promotes -- while it &apos;s simultaneously fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a form transducer , and it can take a lot of forms , some of which are a little quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing thing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just as they do , we sometimes play alone , and we are exposing boundaries of our inner and external worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutrient ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us into our past and present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future where we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing , cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this gold fish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconsistent world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem to be appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate teammates , let &apos;s hug this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover the creativity of companionship and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , right now , each baby -- okay .
armed imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two pairs , each baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because , if you imagine the creation all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , sperm is carrying a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , sperm is carrying a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survivable , both light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
for most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the story of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people went around with anatomy -- that is human bodies , animal bodies -- how they surrounded with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat i &apos;ve worn in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who have social norms in question .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and in general , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality appears in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the possible types of sexual variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standards .
in one case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have in fetal stage , growing up to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone in the fetal stages give off testosterone .
they picked up these photographs from the forest floor , trying to see behind the face or the character , and they concluded that these are business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the gold fish glass , so that everything is possible , you have no freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to it .
as a consequence , the body develops to follow the typical female trajectory .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it takes most of the time for her to reach puberty and her breasts to grow and develop , but they don &apos;t get her period until someone gets to the point that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian hives and uterus , she &apos;s actually carrying testicles and she &apos;s got a y chromosome .
it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold fish glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce the happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are vibrating hormones .
most of the women , as i do -- i think a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome structure , but i think i probably have the typical -- most of the women like me actually talk to androgens .
we make androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and had a androgen defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just figured out he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side beef hyper-bubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were mapped male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and they reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and only when he got 19 , he got enough medical problems , actually , because he menstrued inside that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , which is surrounded ovotesty tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason that children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- is because surgeons are often adapted to the norm , is not because it would be advantageous for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different types of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic jump is coming in with a certain identity .
everybody needs a gold fish glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman means having a female identity ; being a black person is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of their own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most exciting recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the leichatlethik world cup in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me the question : &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or male and intersexual , and intersexual ; in fact , it &apos;s us that prefer that line as a natural line .
this is almost limited to complete security -- potentially for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation like this , where the further our science continues , we have to admit ourselves so much that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories that made very simple assignments to create permanent identity categories are much less sharper than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas in our views .
for example , we &apos;re looking at the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science further and further , we get increasingly into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve probably had are all too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas where we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , is the struggle over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about how a body becomes human , so that it &apos;s a different right than fetal life .
but being a metaphorical gold glass is a recipe for misery , and , i guess , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors had never had a hard time fighting with the question of when someone was dead .
you &apos;ve just kept a feather under your nose , and if it moved , you haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today , we are in a situation where we &apos;re going to take people living organs and we &apos;re going to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start to fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and this brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole breakdown of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit that it makes me nervous .
to realize that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought is what makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about democracy in terms of considerations .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to know first that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years i would find myself looking at the narrow musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they showed back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it through another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years was central to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
they noveled the play field , and they decided that anatomically , the common ground counted , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew together .
democracy grew up , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and they showed things like a supernatural concept of power , back where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth law .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic common .
and so they really wonderfully prepared the future of civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think that much about it , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; we have a uterus and eggs as a difference is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to own , etc . , etc . &quot;
and women were arguing that successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sotravel truth , who spach over it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the civil rights movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which is based on anatomic differences in the field of anatomic differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing in the disability legal movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the common ground , we have to start to question why we keep certain separations .
now , well-being , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their informed consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been deployed at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she was born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani did not just kill outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday min , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , she acquired all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to choose the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the xy guy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be drawn into what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right thing that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science is going to make such progress in anatomy , that we &apos;re going to have to make a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time it feels like sometimes science makes itself self-sufficient .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we &apos;ve got to draw a line somewhere , so we &apos;re going to pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at one point , decided that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people about their skin color , but by the characteristic of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift went from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social benefits more than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labradordogs that are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds that i know .
so how do we operate on the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wonder , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done a really good job of this , and i think we would do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , for example , as it is in iran , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he is willing to undergo a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
we don &apos;t have any of these kinds of states .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and i asked him why he did this intervention -- it was highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be treated very poorly , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl rather than having surgery to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones that they are without having to change around the state &apos;s will .
that &apos;s why i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to finish , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or could have looked like if we had more mothers involved .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is that i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern by different types of anatomy , especially when people apply group thinking .
this is a map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we tried to do that with a smaller genome .
for years now , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in gender research .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and how they act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every one , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relations and care to people who are vulnerable within the group .
and so , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do -- a really curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought that there could be something female in feminism .
that means that there could be something , on average , where female brains are different from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relations , and gives us more attention to the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so , which are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely considerable to figure out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we &apos;ll get more of a concept of not just how to protect each other , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we execute democracy over anatomy -- to think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we try to make a more perfect connection as people , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love being able to find a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also photographing and blogging recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of the second hand in fin markets and in second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my guarderobe on the environment and also the impact of my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes a shopping for my very personal quest .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve been packing up here for this exciting week at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that it &apos;s the only way forward to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants with me , and that &apos;s all .
underwear for exactly a week is all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i do that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i believe it or not , have learned from these adventures to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable if you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
does it allow chemistry to create these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing clothes , or i remember her seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good , it &apos;s almost that way .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you .
if you think you &apos;re inside and out a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone here in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to eradicate everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden couples fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : to develop a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again that week when people came up to me just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , that &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to make these things emotional , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s just waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in my heart and searching for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome is , by the way , just a piece of induced chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i &apos;ve got something i want to show you here .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying picture .
this is what we call our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i show you this is because in the formula one in the last few decades , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula one race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , the information from the car , pass that information on to the system , and then you process it , and then you use it to send back decisions and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
they would call this , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting end .
what &apos;s interesting today is real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the open .
and as a computer in the wild , they start responding in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big thing .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- causing up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , it &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but has been increasing , and our last point is now going to be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all this sensation and push into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition organized by paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom is out there becoming both , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , as michelangelo shaped the moses , it means that he ended up taking the hammer and throwing it on moses -- actually , you can still see a little bit of an untender -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you say ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the very first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with the perception .
now the first project i want to introduce you to is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born in italy four and a half years ago .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and to use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that is being collected from the operator anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of the cidane , the head poke .
and anyway , italy eventually won .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that &apos;s happening in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up at the top .
early afternoon , people here and there , making calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head &apos;s eye .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the great impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the space about massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
so , very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things are going .
so in this project , we actually designed some small markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who , a little over a year ago , helped us marker the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the trash , and we start tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the errors .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that if we see every day , the cup we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we showed that to people , then we can drive a change in behavior .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could take them a lot more about the perceivation and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was , how could you connect technology , new technology ?
and one of the ideas that was explored at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they &apos;re causing something like a water curtain with water points of imagery .
if these images fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it &apos;s going to open up to skip through it , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor to belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you get close to it , it will open and leave it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths were done by drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can even leave the roof down .
or you could close the building and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , that day , when you go down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there saying , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
this is how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not getting wet .
now , let me tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but it was actually a much more fun thing that night .
all the zaragoza children came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open to let you in , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to now jump without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who are using the things that we &apos;re designing .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical points , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little image of changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw before , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , not the position of the images .
they can play with different types .
imagine if the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different solutions .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of imagery that you can go through and move through , that you can look from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfi control , which is falling down to form a smooth v as it used to be .
if you turn on the light , it looks like this . so just like we saw before .
imagine that every single person is controlled by people .
it could have a impulse every single image that comes from people , from the movements of people or something like that .
i want to show you something too first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étole at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left , you see the images , the different input points .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion recording .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then , once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with the color of gravity and motion .
that &apos;s what we want to use as a possible pulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i was talking to the oil industry recently , and they said they were going to understand this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re going to bring back to people to do something and to change the environment -- almost something we call the cloud movement , how to move a scheme , but with a cloud .
imagine that anybody can give a little donation for a picture .
i think the remarkable thing about the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and made it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the obama campaign has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , it can take us to challenge the coming challenges -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with images .
they can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympia in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both of these , the physical cloud in the sky , and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light bulb in the night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for everyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i care about the relationship .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i try to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i took awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy , trying to figure out what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were racing almost 60 meters from the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their surroundings and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and grab to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a case of dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as people often see each other .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a total bacterial chromosome . it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought we could build it in cassette tapes the size of the virus that we could variate the size of the cassette tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its ancient atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral rich drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i take my footage of these iceberg mountains as if i made portraits of my ancestors , conscious that they exist in these individual moments from this way , and will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i photographed is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , that digital information really has to be flawed .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg , and where it is in the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on was this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; paps , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the als .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that makes design and animation , graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided , tony -- tempt -- to support his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we were still killing him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in the resort . if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to be able to talk to tony again .
i just want to talk to him again , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;re listening to the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diver bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to make pieces that are 50 letters long , and they have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with a need to just put a check out , and instead i put a check that i didn &apos;t know how to fix it .
i committed to the place and to his brother and father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this , it can &apos;t communicate . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw with a laser pointer on it , which is just registering the negative area .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sexes , and then the word comes in , and then the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in your presentations .
so i went home and i was eating with my wife and i was telling her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , then we should find a way to control a laser so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve reached some things .
first of all , we put the insurance into the doors , and actually got a device for tempt that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you go , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do this , and that we came back and all the images on the walls were weighed for free .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the venice beach shop , my kids were brought in , my dog was also involved , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the venice beach beaches , some copper wire and some things from the construction market and electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s freely available -- you can build it yourself , we can provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of constraints .
no insurance can source .
no hospital .
every paralyzed now can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to speed &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s their room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
there &apos;s all this fame in front of the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , noodle parties and crafted nights , tony drew back after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he &apos;s looking beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve tilted his bed so he can see outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both of his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
so , funny , we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
and he ended up sending us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was crushed underwater , and finally someone took my head down and pulled my head up so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
that &apos;s something like our fight .
that &apos;s what keeps us going on and on and on .
and we have to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all sorts of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrases , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this -- and this includes the whole circle -- is that there will be an exhibition in april , the stolen moca in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is quite crude .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , then you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with a generic technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and this question should be asked by all of you every single day when you find something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
we just signed it at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s mostly yellow children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get out of this as a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t a poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom coat .
i was the one who was beaten green and blue every week , until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman post , who said , &quot; i &apos;ve got to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man i know you &apos;ve found him now .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to flourish . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at them , we laughed , we cried , and we knew they had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we took care of their family eight because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box full of ash and was put into my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about was happening .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest , which was amazing .
and we started to make pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , they put together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , to 72,000 .
it needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine a plane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds scary .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in every step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process of what you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
it &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the engine .
imagine a noisy airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most sensitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready to jump up . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a fear , life was at the end .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about me that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought of all the people that i wanted to hand out and didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
so while i was thinking about this later , i came up with a phrase that says , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because when the wine is so far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to make a difference in life .
and that urgency , that goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair breadth -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my errors , i aspired to be better at everything i put on .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regret the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , friends , to people .
and after that , when i thought about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i was no longer arguing with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and while the internal clock begins , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , ... &quot;
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re crashing , i had this feeling of human being , dying is not terrifying .
it &apos;s almost as if we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i only wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my children grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense for me .
i realized at the time that i connected the dots to each other that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is , imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine , and how would you change ?
what would you do to push you up because you think you &apos;re going to be there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is three million races of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can possibly be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple in itself .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can compromise the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows-virus to be put on a laptop that &apos;s used by a waiting engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the use data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- assignment .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research to stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the point and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated , in terms of the windows part , the dropper-- part , he made use of countless cero- day- wedding .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all came back together as it was .
that didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized that this is a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper actively argues on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that tries to infect it on this goal .
and if not , stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the angular code , and we found that it &apos;s structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve heard that stuxnet is complex and high-tech dropper , let me tell you , the user data is a science for yourself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we first looked for was systems function calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away , and determine what type of animals were in .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could demonstrate or disprove .
in order to make these theories , let &apos;s remember that it &apos;s definitely high-grading sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely to be in iran , because that &apos;s where most of the infections have been reported .
now , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
basically , it &apos;s going to go out to the bushehr nuclear power plant and the uranium incentives in natanz .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warheads to rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part of the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even have the centrifuge explode .
what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of attacking was actually to let it happen slowly and secretly -- obviously , in trying to have warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warheads -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is really out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natanz , and found that they &apos;re structured in something called cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attacks ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that matched really well .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little jump head takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big jump head comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s soundscape , and it &apos;s just natory .
so we don &apos;t have to worry about other goals being met by stuxnet .
here &apos;s an added shot of the molecule that we &apos;ve made using these processes -- in fact , we &apos;ve only used hefty mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we &apos;ve adapted them . yeast then is automatically combining them .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- really took me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incorporating values of sensors -- so for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already taken .
so it &apos;s just like hollywood movies , where , during the pursuit , the surveillance system is fed with video footage before it &apos;s taken .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s even more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overlimit a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up the discharge valves within milliseconds .
of course , this cannot be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to use the data on a usb key , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and if you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these kinds of attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is footage over a six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to set the consequences , and we better start preparing ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is cyber superpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for hunting us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking for terrible situations , and just trying to study social belonging in a way that they &apos;re enthralled and interesting , and hopefully in a way understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure that has ever been created by people .
some of you may have heard that i turned on an ad on ebay a few weeks ago .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights on my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let that happen again -- to buy the name rights of the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now , which at the time didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues about what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name here is presented : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and which you could fly around your ears after content , especially if i let your company go for your participation .
but apart from that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the title of work , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew anybody was going to buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , i &apos;ve been in some pretty terrible situations over the years , but nothing was able to prepare me , nothing could get me to do anything as difficult and as dangerous as going into a room with these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a film .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so what &apos;s happening in &quot; the greatest film ever sell , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely tagged with brands -- from the cover sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , which is the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the film is going to study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalians and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we were to print it with a 10-size-fits-all , it would be 142 pages , just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a title sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and he will sell the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , an attention from &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so the idea is , apart from showing that brands are part of life , actually , getting them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of statements .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from the beginning to the end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how conception people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows , when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer is going to be ?
the answer is very likely to be no .
obviously , with a virus , it &apos;s very simple . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing to do for me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as easy if you do it in eukaryontes as we are , you just take out the nucleus and you put another in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put out the camera .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out , &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a background conversation .
it turns out it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your film . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to do with the film .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , let as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium that the masses bring this message .
archaebacteria is integrated into the cell , but just recently , we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal error , and that was that .
in fact , it wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
see , if you type in transparency to google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and look through ; immediately understandable ; characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species , and in fact , these two are as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to pick this chromosome , and we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip is eating .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because there was only one company , an agency , ready to help us -- and also just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a big problem .
i have friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little independent movies like me .
and my friends , the big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their movies are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , giant hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that &apos;s the end here , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
every time i get on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they so far ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be both equipped for men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the shortcut .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exhaustible socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller films , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing things like this -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone does under the eighth .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of all kinds of things , every time thousands of characteristics in just a second to a species .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-company .
what about me ? what about the printing system ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who are like me , otto-normal consumers .
i want you to tell me about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that will have changed a lot of biology at a time .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s revival hits skaterpunk , except for washing day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , cool fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : part of hippie , part of yogi , part of brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell scholars all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was exposed .
man 5 : brand cut alcohol addicted writers .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and calm fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed someone who could go into my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , fatty , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures with them , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about them ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was colored blue because of the genes that we had added .
what is the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis have you run through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be like .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and converted completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing that i saw was this idea that their brand personality has two separate , but it has evenly pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth standard brand .
they do very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than both of them .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to be afraid , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a dexterous chess .
what other brands are doing like this ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and eighth brands , these things that come and go , but one playful , eighth brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would it be ?
do you have an up-down attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are you more of a down attribute ?
are you something a little quieter , more reserved , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , out-of-the-box and loving like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are you more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and mondative like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , sure , born , holy , contemplated , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies that said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they wanted nothing to do with this film , especially because they didn &apos;t have control , no control over the finished product .
but there are 17 brand partners who were willing to get rid of this control , who wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t normally have told -- stories that an advertisement wouldn &apos;t normally support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film today , that you use mris to bend the pleasure centers of the brain , both to make advertising and to make movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no stimulus , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we went to school districts , where companies are taking their way to impoverished schools all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i had the biggest success , they are where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and what was it like for you ? what was it successful ?
now that the film had premiere on the sundance film festival , we can look at it .
according to burrale , the premier in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
it &apos;s actually just a two-and-a-half weeks period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be in the process of creating a new form of cambrian explosion in which there might be massive new biodiversity education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their customers to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i believe in is that if you take your opportunity , you take risks , there are opportunities in those risks .
i think if you stop people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that when we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities that they might be scared .
finally , as we move forward , we should welcome the fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
each one is a big spoon full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , should we welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk is &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc , who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights of ebay .
big data is being transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : embrace transparency
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the height of 7100 dollars to fund my ted performance next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i refused to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is now , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i had no access to many museums and these works of art .
so when i went to visit these museums , i started to learn a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite ones , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t make any difference .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you feel amused .
you want to orient yourself in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gangs .
just further . a lot of fun .
put it up .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite pictures , pieter breugel workers in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for anyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
so this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click that away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and zoom out very easily .
you see something funny here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people fuel .
but then they really want deep inside .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , i spoke to some famous people at met , and actually found out that it &apos;s a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the day of the day .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge for nine .
the best part is still -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the brush strikes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh making this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you can really go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in to one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen this way before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can put your own collection .
simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is &apos; the donors &apos; in the national alignment .
you can see everything with the remarks , send your friends , and you can start having a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come out of the museums , i think .
i might not say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question that i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a picture of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that &apos;s landing in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitutes of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , it would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided to do one of these extreme things , but i think , for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good share of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good share of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we have now , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing at the same time can only be in a place .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is in two different places at the same time , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a ground threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was constantly falling .
but i bet that playing with the threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you over , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist because they don &apos;t play with soil , but they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all sorts of weird things -- like you can fly right through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all these things are made up of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow all the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be like that .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so i would feel strongly better about the whole thing , if we could sort of show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i set out to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see , which was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re going to look right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these rapid synthesia methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal it &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and i refined for 100 hours to all the big devices .
for the last bit of time , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all sorts of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to hurt them , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the peers for static objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal is going to be quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the travelers .
and then we did that .
we turned off the light , put it in a vacuum and sucked out all the air and cooled it up until almost now , all by itself in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave the way it wanted to .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange to move .
instead of just lying there , it was vibrating . the way it was vibrating was something like this -- like a stretching and gathering bubble balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to make it vibrate and not vibrate at the same time -- something that is allowed only in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is what &apos;s truly fantastic .
what does it mean for an object to vibrate at the same time and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with just a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that each atom is in two different places at the same time , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places at the same time .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing in the clean room for all this year , because , you know , check this out , the scale difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , that piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine you were in a number of places at the same time , what would that feel like ?
and it &apos;s just selection . we can select for life ability , or chemicals or fuel production , vaccination production and so on .
how would your mind deal with the fact that your body is delayed in space ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , turned the light on and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talking about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and want to work , they are given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all competing for new residents .
right now , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even available to a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could just make the world very simple with a stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , if you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just exchange the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments are doing this already ; half of them don &apos;t .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they &apos;re going to rely on in these apartments and their surroundings are laws for avoiding and reducing from expanding .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very difficult to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a completely new place , build a whole new block of living , assuming the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new surfaces that offer enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
i later found out that about the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans would leave their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens when we take a nasty area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian ambassador , and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a massive depression .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovation and simplicity .
he asked octavio to become his stable .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation fuel .
by improving , trying and consuming , i tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the fundamental elements .
the first point is that the importance of laws , laws that determine that you cannot disturb existing housing owners .
we give new technologies great contempt , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that hold us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he again showed him jafour .
they called me .
and he said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country . &quot;
so we met in a hotel in december , in the boardroom of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they are .
and i used this chart to show you how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that a area in some cases is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all create singing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk was in a very simple way that a charter city is a place that is beginning to be uninhabited , a founding contract that determines the laws that exist there and that gives people the opportunity to decide whether to live or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we had to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another talk filled with facts that included a graph like this that tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very big city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport built in denver .
these airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have the second and third generation fuels that are going to come out pretty soon , that are going to have much higher sugar levels , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnerships with countries , they could benefit from their partnerships that they would support in building the laws for this charter and doing it , that everybody can trust that the charter is really implemented .
and the insight of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get foreign investors to come and build this city equally significant for all the parties in honduras that have been suffering for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food , or the limitation of their availability is when we see co2 as a source material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s got a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted for a change in constitution to have a constitutional policy that is reliable for special development .
in a country that has just been in a major crisis , congress was elected for this change in constitution with 124 to a voice .
all parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
but in order to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was permitted at 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center that was built in south korea , big than the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first with the fourth generation fuel , and that &apos;s about 18 months from now .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in the city building is singapore .
it &apos;s already been built two cities in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you think about it effectively , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also being worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
also , urban designers and construction are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one of the things that you already know has been explained , there are a lot of rent .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to settle in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place all the time .
a million people are leaving latin america every year and going to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes , single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothes .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents , who they haven &apos;t seen , in some cases , for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about this in honduras building a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds of people around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discoveries of the world , we have all kinds of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that according to a typical american is 70 on a day .
and they also did a recent study with ceos , where they watched ceos for a week .
and these scientists just documented the different topics that these ceo is busy making , and how much time they spent making decisions that relate to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus the one in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at making the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the overload problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise it , because i &apos;m blind , just hand if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the overload problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very , very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , in almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank water .
i loved going to this business , but at one point , i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to visit the branch bucket , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed out the buses of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras on it .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s your martian gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as an energy source .
we &apos;ve set up a little cook sacrifice directly at the entrance of the business .
we &apos;ve put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we &apos;ve looked at two things : one , what &apos;s the case that more people would stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than if it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were buying a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
from the people who were standing when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
well , if you calculate it , six times more people bought a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than when they had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of brands is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 that could just be brought to production stores , convert co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save the retirements of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsanswerers who were able to do a retirement plan , the 401 plan , is likely to affect whether more is saved for tomorrow .
and what we found was that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that would offer people something between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered , in fact , that the less participatory rate was .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that two fonds offered , they had a participatory rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that nearly 60 fonds offered , the participation rate now dropped to about six percent .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , when there were more options to choose , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tended to be more likely to have more options available to them , the more they rent it to the actias and the fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had available , the more they put all their money in pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that any human being would recommend if we care about their future financial well-being .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three key negative consequences in people who are providing more and more choices .
you push the decision up -- push up , even when it comes to your own best interest .
they make rather worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they choose more for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective .
the main reason for this is that we might enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually drag the comparison and the limitations , and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i &apos;d like to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different places of research -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than today that less is .
you know , we really -- moderate goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? a major source of energy to become .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limits . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real ground .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to narrow , and the unimportant opportunities are going to get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulders from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 best selling cats , they experienced that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today gives you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the nine-largest supermarket , which is now nine-largest supermarket in the world , is aldi , and they only offer you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how best to mandate choice , was something that david laibson has been very much involved in , which is a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff is now automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approach to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the question is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-including vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the road .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read you , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
you &apos;ve seen it with the flu this year , we &apos;re always a year in the back , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who is ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that they were objectively looking at , the first time they had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that they felt it the second time real .
because the images suffered it for them to feel real .
which brings me to the second technology , which helps them deal with the problem of overlap , which is the concretization .
i think that can be changed by making recombined vaccines in the front .
it &apos;s about understanding the difference between ways people have to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be felt vividly and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an ecology map or a credit card than baremoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel like money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro collitero , we did a study with people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement savings plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as it was always , we &apos;ve added a little bit of a piece .
the smallness that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they saved money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four percent increase in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings accounts .
third technology : categorization .
we can better deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the tree of evolution with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryontes .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine entrance .
it turns out that in the way that supermarkets up and down in the northeast , the number varies between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 64 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , then you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice than i would have given you the 400 , versus that , if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry systems .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the left ad is swing and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years from improving people , and our goal is just that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to say something to the selection , not the one that provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you want to inform with this ?
my fourth technique : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we have to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : buy a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now , these decisions are different from the number of choices that you make per decision .
car color , car color -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four options .
what i &apos;m doing now is , i &apos;m changing the order of making decisions .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice all the time in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choices possible over and over again , choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
if you go from the few choices to the many , then you stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses , it doesn &apos;t tell me anything about my preferences in the interior state , it still prepare me to choose .
so now it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment that has ever been done -- 27 miles in diameter .
it gets me excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m ready to be interested in this .
let me summarize .
i told you about four techniques that mimic the problem of decision-making -- limiting -- they get rid of the excess alternatives ; concrete it -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; preparing for complexity .
each of these techniques i &apos;m describing to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in the selection .
and the more we choose to choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , youtube trust managers . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today , we want to talk about how video becomes viral , and then we want to talk about why this is important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that there was no religious faith in sub-saharan africa . of course , there was one , and voodoo is just the remaining of this very deep religious thought that came across during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and that was up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so incredibly difficult .
but web video enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become insanely famous in part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet to the next saturday .
but in youtube , more than 48 hours of video per minute is uploaded .
again , just a tiny percentage ever gets viral and is seen thousands of times and so at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhh , woww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been seen 23 million times .
this chart shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to do a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmy .
jimmy kimmel ended up sending the tweet , who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things , and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . god get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday , friday . you wouldn &apos;t think we &apos;d have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the chart looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know it , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was a first one to make a joke about it on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared with a large audience , and accelerated the process .
then this community of people who shared this big insider joke started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new out of it .
that &apos;s what i work on . it &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats that look at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that exists in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something we do with it .
who could have predicted that ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what scripts could you have written in which there was something like this ?
in a world where every minute two days of video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can evoke like the video i mentioned .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested , when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy protesting against a traffic ticket in new york .
i got a ticket , because i didn &apos;t go on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you go on the bike path .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at his argument for five million times .
this approach is true for everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine was running for the first time .
and that all leads us to the one big question .
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and in which the audience is popular .
as i said , one of the biggest stars right now -- justin bieber -- he started with youtube .
no one has to give a green light to your ideas .
and today , we all feel like owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to hit the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
she &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzle bits .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
hold it in front of the communication in saigon , as it must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , have now spotted his .
he moved back into silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused immense jebelts in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we got over it .
the next piece of puzzle shows how a boat in the early morning red is running out quietly in the sea .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had asked her one task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and filmmaker saga glitt a boat still on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put all the way around the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
they were scared of pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was wearing a little poison bottle .
in a prisoner &apos;s take , my sister and i would have drunk , and then she and my grandmother .
my first memories are of this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bow , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirate that came many times , but i was fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the fall of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who together are building a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we went down to footscray , one of the working-class neighborhoods , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the smells from the ladder belt came from the rest of the world .
and the feathers were broken in english between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , doubled layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
each dollar was given , and they were put in more english and mathematics education , no matter what we had to get away with , and most of the time , the new things that always came from the second hand .
two strands for school , each one , to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because she had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this , when someone visited the google side and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; shallow eye , &quot; and here and there were mutals , &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
go home to where ?
something blew up in me .
there was a meeting to reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , and then she did a cosmetic training , and she opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t make change , angry and unflexible , and sorted children , caught between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers have been built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one of them , i was the classic asian student who put unquestionable demands on her own .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe lives that wore tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and isolation .
but that &apos;s how many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak in places she had never heard of , and in housing , whose existence she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters , who graduated every single day in their days , telling and sleeping with each other the stories of their day , we still have three of them in the same bed .
i told my mother i wasn &apos;t going to do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about juggling and training , and the neglect of the marginalized and discounted .
and the more open i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand-ampter when the machine is running at high performance .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the boundaries of the possible .
and although i graduated from that , i realized that i couldn &apos;t deal with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something to be grateful for , perhaps a gift of the boat .
because it can be so easy to collapse the horizon , it can be so easy that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that wouldn &apos;t have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagnish .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the boxes &quot; don &apos;t &quot; go , &quot; which was an unresistant challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i cooked a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked till late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin , the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become what they call superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother was raising her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without support of her husband , she worried for a sensation by bringing him to court and claiming in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t &quot; turn out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories , and we assured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of you is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you look at who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to us .
it would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over a thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manual turtle .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of justice .
can i give you a bug in your life that dries bold every wave , the uncontributed , steady tuckers of the engine , the long horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safely through , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos; mother is here today in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share with you my photography .
is it photography at all ?
because of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
so the wires are heating themselves , and 13-thousand ampans suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , began at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because using the camera , the process was in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something in which the process begins when the trigger is pressed .
photos like this : a building site along a much rigid road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , there &apos;s a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all of them with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living bears are the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have , in a photograph .
photos that you have to think about for a moment in order to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , this is all even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s about what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , combined with each other , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we overlimit our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but if we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they look just kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same type of lighting .
and these two images meet these two demands -- shot from the same height and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images begin and end by connecting them seamlessly .
doesn &apos;t make it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by adding color , contrast and brightness to the edges to the individual images , photographic deficits , like deep , depleted colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and let them look like a single photo , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into compromise with your ideas in your head .
but it takes a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan them , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a lift trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we repaired them , repaired them .
and yes , i even colored the house up on the top of the island red to make it look swedish .
so in order to get a realistic outcome , it comes from me , so it comes out of my way to plan .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and it can also be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects are missing .
and i think the most important point is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all on their way back now .
and one of the things that we introduced at radboud university was to hire a major listener .
it &apos;s not very scientific -- it puts a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems of why everybody -- maybe only most of the electronic health projects fail : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilograms .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be able to work again .
and there they &apos;re also called out from my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiology or something , but also looking at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump up to my wlan-waage and people are talking to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group forced , group forced to help patients , because it could be used for obesity , or it could be used for patients to get rid of smoking .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play some kind of game together to control their health better .
next week , it comes to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure measuring device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will enable people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with people , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come into play , not only can they take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in health care with the challenges that are in front of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use , and start hugging patients on this team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things that we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and of course , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way , accidents are restoring the debate around the value of science and engineering on these boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone breaks down , you can use your iphone , and within weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this not just as aed4u , what the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to grasp beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone breaks down , whether it &apos;s your own relativity or someone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
these could be a curician service , or a technician , for example , just to make sure that the aed is still in its place .
please help us and try to not only improve health , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be drawn up from under the great water , answers to the rhythm of the dance to overcome the soul of the living thing , so that the acolyth for a brief shiny moment becomes the god .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i suspect , defended the useless experiments of his apprentice , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind than to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumpy is tedious , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump over this -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you .
thank you .
so a couple of years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year out and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything that they actually hate , we made them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the freaks peacekeepers .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them into the city hall .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban workers .
but what they really do is show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s unleashing him when he &apos;s in charge , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at burning when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year in the suit of the code for america program .
they were there in february , and they did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never swells these hydrants open .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael &apos;s ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to shoot him out when he snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , someone can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s , of course , more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s rapidly expanding .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can release the bookstores when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread freely , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
it &apos;s usually a few years of software funding .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year , which took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method that parents could figure out which ones are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it had gone over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that the taxpayer has cost two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then spreads from rarity , is a kind of a shot in front of the bug on the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should work .
and not even like a tech company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , that means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a selled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who are standing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , a very strange thing has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship with this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake in the workforce and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
politics doesn &apos;t change ; government is in change .
and because the government finally exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government is all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities , about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called &quot; eat , pray , love &quot; -- that , unlike all my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international best seller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call 311 in your city .
if you ever have the opportunity to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people , the government , are calling for a lot of different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in your house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very noisy music and see if the livestock skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i were proven to be undergoing .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in this : &quot; thylacine rats in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if she &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , a neighbor saw it .
and the next post that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- you know , the demise .
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacines . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
one citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white go to church and talk about god .
for example , do you get very concerned about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and they could have been linked to government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we will strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about it , is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , reflect our values and fulfill our needs , and then not much changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use that word with that kind of contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write on your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s that contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , something that works against us , something else , and then we made ourselves .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is going on .
we need to rely on government machines .
so the occupation movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the financial reform legislation .
this is not being politically active , this is bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time that we think about it , the world that we want to leave our children behind .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to reconstruct the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems right .
now the average age of our field lows is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up looking at your voice for granted .
they don &apos;t fight this fight that we all fight , which is , who is allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can express your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that i was telling , over 20 years ago , when i was a teenager for the first time , that i wanted to be a writer with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to unleash a hydrant , unchewed , turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have unleashed these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just government consumers who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we going to be just a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; don &apos;t you fear never succeeding ? &quot;
my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can &apos;t keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single boring slide .
... could you show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i chose from my folder by accident .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows a data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in performance scale .
and that &apos;s a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
don &apos;t you worry that humiliation is going to kill you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights again .
a little bit more bright , because i &apos;m going to draw on the paper in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , the timeline of a kind , and this is a random amount of technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , say , a transportation technology , that would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if the transportation technology continued as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi tomorrow and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re going to follow this craftsman for your life and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it &apos;s not going so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , through which the scale of scale increases exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible for everything to evolve forever and forever as quickly as it is now .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
it &apos;s kind of like that .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s really what it means , we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is , how is this new world going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is beginning to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was a future somewhere in the year 2000 , and people often talked about what would happen in 2000 .
now , here &apos;s a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still at 2000 .
further than that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;ve been in the world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that something is going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know it just doesn &apos;t make sense at the moment to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple calculation of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is , yes .
so i want to talk about what this could be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we need to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the earth &apos;s time scale .
i think the whole picture makes sense when you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that are beginning to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story of this , which is that , at that time , little oil droplet was sweeping around , which had different types of prescriptions for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contained a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from the outside and grow .
everybody who was like that started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were actually the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet were not about alive in the sense of today , because every single one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals that are found in it have been distributed in unequal quantities .
so every droplet was a little bit different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for growth of optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside and shared faster .
so these tendencies to survive longer , and they multiply at a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way that we don &apos;t fully understand , these droplet has learned the ability to write down information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information , in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , in this insane , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information that &apos;s been stored over the course of 2.5 billion years when it was born was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same writing .
and every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that we can , just for fun , write even things in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white pulver here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security .
it &apos;s in there -- what i did is i took this code -- the code is made up of regular letters that we use to symbolize -- and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i amplified it 10 ^ 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
writing dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would ever know .
and that &apos;s what these cells did -- that &apos;s what made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you already knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , antibiotics are growing the durability for antibiotics .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community succeeded , all the individuals of the community were repeated more and preferred by evolution .
the transitional site is now where these communities came together so close that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types that are together to function as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we are such a multi-celled community .
we have many cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level at which evolution took place was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step was happening within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but processing information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built up .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently and asking myself , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the time period of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than over this evolutionary period of time .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time it eaten it .
this could now happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas before that , hundreds of thousands of years , this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution has now been able to happen within an individual .
it could happen within a time of learning .
what happened then is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i &apos;ve got a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving gruesome notes from me , hoping to create a similarly confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in other people &apos;s heads .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods of how we hold data , present it .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in this direction .
telephony , computers , video conquers , cd roms and so on , are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work they feel like they &apos;re working on ?
you also saw ty &apos;s little evolutionary example of where he showed a little evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve speed up the time scales again .
the first steps in the story that i told you were one billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- if something increases its change velocity .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative corporations that they make us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i can &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the progression of recently made in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connectivity machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do is , we think at a certain level of abstraction , we transmit this machine , and the machine makes something that exceeds our skills far , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand yet .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , generic , please , a hundred million randomly chosen sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist where he was asked to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these randomly chosen instructions , execute all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that are closest to my prescriptions . &quot;
so in other words , i define first what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to rank numbers , which is a simple example that i &apos;ve used for that .
so find programs that can be the most numerous .
of course , the chance of randomly chosen instructions is very small that they &apos;re going to rank numbers by accident , so i don &apos;t think any of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them , with some luck , likes two numbers back into the right order .
now i say , &quot; computer , now take those 10 percent of the sequences that came the closest to my lecture .
keep them off , delete the rest .
now , reproduces all the rest of the remains that the numbers have best sorted .
and that is , with a method of recombination , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how are you doing it ?
take two programs , and they make children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of subroutines from the two programs .
so now i &apos;ve got a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
reevaluating them .
maybe bring in some mutations .
and try the whole thing with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can do a evolution of millions of years in the computer in less minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfect sort of numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t occur , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s rotten and weird programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re going to do the job , because you get out of a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 together with marvin minsky , and he picks up a map , and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that development process is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we start to rely on computers for a process which is very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists over the centuries did not get the call of alcohol man depressed people .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibility of that yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re using these programs now to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time when , as a cell organisms have evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite turn out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we seem to have this kind of reputation , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this call , mentally , incredibly unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else is coming after us .
i think it &apos;s very tight to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here now before i get chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians then , we jumped into a car and we screamed across the sky .
now we do this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , who died young and often by their own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna was thirst , he took a bow , shot in the ground and water stepped out .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we concluded that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i was a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sun without a camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirate and unhappy ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were keeping us from dreaming .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use magic instead of killing .
at 16 , i started to illustrate books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect the reader around the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- this is , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these kinds of possibilities .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i don &apos;t mean magic and kites , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to dump the ipad and get the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they were lighting the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book here , every world , becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to take here to the magical device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody like that , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , and somehow we &apos;ve embraced the notion so internal and collectively accepted that creativity and suffering somehow belong together and that art -- at the end of the day , always leads to the soul room .
we &apos;ve all heard of fees and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years , in an old brave book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story that addresses new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the theme of environmental crisis , a big problem for the last 10 years , is that children are sitting in their rooms , in their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , children don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out and take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everybody here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways that magic connects the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning to do an interaction where you use the video of the ipad and you see , through augmented reality , an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that idea at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and closer to the natural world and to the magic and fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of history .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most social weakest in the social development settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short run , i realized that ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and power that otherwise it wouldn &apos;t have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good things , but as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and that &apos;s why i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work , by the way , as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a family , a traditional african-american household , dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a reef , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trunk , the glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a way that it stops when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it take over to the next century .
it was also the starting point of many arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born as slaves in virginia in the 1840s .
it was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery was very strong in the world .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said &quot; no , &quot; she hugged me again . when i said &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
and she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better for us to live our great creative encouragement .
the only problem she had was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were walking all around .
i remember , i had to have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and i went to the living room . all my cousins were walking around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was about 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and she came over to me , and she took me in the hand and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we need to talk . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
and i know definitely that , for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to settle down this dark path of suspect -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me outside and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise that you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me , and she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve seen you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , you &apos;re going to love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next , i &apos;m going to tell you that you &apos;re going to always do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise . &quot;
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on the land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack beer with me , my sister and i went to the forest with us .
we were only silly around there as we were .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a drink of beer and offered my sister one , and she took one , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . just do . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . now we do it , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do you . just do you . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked in my face and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still doing crazy about the grandmother &apos;s conversation ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is valued by the world as the work that came after the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted in public .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t .
of course , my grandmother would say all her grandchildren are special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i say it straight out , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s very likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol infected diseases .
and she believed that this was the subjects that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social and black parts of the population , despair and despair , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men , between 18 and 30 , in prison , is in prison , released to proclamation , or with conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia to baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , abandoned in currency , or in conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also hired by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that they &apos;re much better treated when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , is affecting the outcome .
yet , we seem to be quite happy with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kind of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling the right to vote when they &apos;re sentenced .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population has permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as before the election legislation .
the silence is anesthetizing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-ten-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , we have life penalty for children without a conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the question of death penalty is an interesting question .
we think because we &apos;re taught so that the real question is : did a human being deserve to die for a crime that he has ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other way of looking at it is not : did someone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
to nine people we executed , one that we found for innocent has been dumped and released from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i met were the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let someone fly with an airplane if , for nine planes , who pick up , one falls down .
but somehow we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after a while of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynch mobs .
or bombs .
it was the fear of terror that formed their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re giving talks . they &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in our nation &apos;s history , we have to do with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the racetrack and decades of racist motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there is a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to preserve a safe distance between me and my very natural climb about what the response to the written will be .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly hitting each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that rape racing is not overcoming without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , they can never be there . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more sensible ideas about how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it got silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever speak for the systematic killing of people .
it would be unaware of us to consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state let people go , especially if there were a lot of jews below it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be thoughtless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the pitched black is black , and the victim knows -- in the same states where the earth rings the body of yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this search led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but then finally , these realities are overlapped by suffering , abuse , degradation , limitation .
it seems important to me to unite both .
because ultimately , we &apos;re talking about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , that means bringing up time , thinking and talking about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to eventually believe things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said that .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to sometimes be in hopeless places , and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities also have to engage in .
there is no boundary of technology and design that allows us to be completely human , unless we also have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it will deeply touch you .
as a young lawyer , i was privileged to meet pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she trafted two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american woman -- and virginia durr , a white man , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women met , and they were just talking .
occasionally , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks come to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened to it .
it was always so inspiring , so flattering .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same thing . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine dienereal spirit that comes to people from a distant , unknown source for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are you trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do something about injustice .
wr want to help people who have been innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the crimination system .
we want to end life penalty without a conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me , and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine divine minds of creativity demons .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be a braver .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , these suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a few very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
it was known by socrates that he believed he had a demonstration to tell him from a distance .
if someone takes something that they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not going to be measured at the end of our technology , not the things that we &apos;re developing , not the intellect and the mind .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the judgments , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we start to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose balance . i end up with a story .
the progeny of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plains of colombia , and as a result , this people moved back to an isolated volcanic massive , rising over the caribbean coastal plain .
the roman had the same idea , which is what this kind of disembodied creative mind called a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush away from our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these children who were convicted of very hard sentences .
i go to the study prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and he should be in court as an adult .
then i ask myself , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn somebody into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the roman didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think about it , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started off with this assignment , and the headline was , &quot; mission to treat my poor , 14-year-old black mandants like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that misconduct of the state lawyer and the police and the errors were considering .
there was a crazy line about the fact that in this country , there &apos;s nothing more calculating that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed of this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my exposure , i had not only written it , but sent it to the court .
a few months went on , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine that was believed to live literally in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house -- who came out and the artist at work , in a way , was sort of invisible assisting and designing the result of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i got up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitors in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered into my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there is the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something deeply in me , identity , the ability of each and every one to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courtroom .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and manufacturing prosecutors and office workers .
in the globe , the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my eye , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept seeing through the window , and he could hear the entire tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial outcome in the courtroom and sat right behind me , almost to the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in that disturbed him that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what are you doing in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to say to this young man , don &apos;t lose the target . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted , because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is far out , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we &apos;re not completely evolved as humans , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that our survival is linked to the survival of every single one .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , pity and justice .
and most of all , i want to say to those of you who see this as well , just say , don &apos;t lose the target out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen , in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard to help you and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a folk decision in this spring , which is actually about trying to implement some of the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all deadliers don &apos;t end up with arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t look at it all for you , and everybody knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this is a reference that will propose to invest the money in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often linked to the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violence crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of the violent crime .
it was the misguided cross against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high rates come to prison inmates .
we &apos;ve ripped off the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that get people behind the grid forever for a bicycle theft for the theft , for the theft of the theft , rather than having them force them to give back the things to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a criminal , not less .
and i think that our current philosophy of punishment doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string to vibrate here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death is an increased risk of driving .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit of a fame .
two : famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pepper spray of police .
bad cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social decline . seven : 65 deaths .
eight : tsunami warning . 9 : cyberattacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . silence . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative themes because our minds pay attention to these very topics .
this is how people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s a very good reason for that .
every second of the day , our senses are catching much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we &apos;re more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it cares and carries all the information in search of any kind of ambition of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand &quot; is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices , seven days a week , putting all these negative news messages on 24 hours a day , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodbath continent , these were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe in the last century , the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in a series of forces is accelerating so much that in the next three decades , we &apos;re going to be able to create a world of surplus .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking forward to problems in a very long way , but eventually , they &apos;re going to overcome .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so that we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has tripled to inflation average income in the world &apos;s population .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and also , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have decreased a lot of times .
steve pinker has shown us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time of human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate over the last 130 years has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and many people forget this .
and we &apos;re continuing to increase our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a large fraction of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , mobile phones , climate conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of many of these are technologies , and these are growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that &apos;s going to become information technology is going to make big jumps on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quality is going to double every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is a thousand times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it slows down for none of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic process on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to all of us .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; which my friends at autodesk call &quot; infinite-computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow us to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuel , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at &quot; risk ? &quot;
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was grandios .
i once went through the newspapers looking for the best headlines that i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson is a human enemy . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that are positive within a decade of the lives of billions of people .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think to allow a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all the divine , creative , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to raise a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have sounded ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of free power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iiii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver butt , napoleon himself got gold bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam , however , got aluminum beef .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at that time , more valuable than gold and platin .
this is why the dome of the galaxy monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum is 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it &apos;s not as pure metal .
it &apos;s associated with oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking about energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet that &apos;s filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , jumps on the surface of the earth .
this displays and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , they were able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
solar energy costs dropped by 50 percent last year .
last month , this has been published with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the u.s. solar power will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photo . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this pressure of success has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , there &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are tilted , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but here &apos;s hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you something -- he gave me permission -- his engineering , which is called the slingshot , and many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator at the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technological innovation that we have today .
and if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my god , we &apos;re going to get to 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013 .
just think that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you &apos;re looking for google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what we expect in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we &apos;re asking teams around the world to connect all these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaning or testing your blood values .
and in order to win , the device has to diagnose better than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the burden of disease and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health department and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now , the biggest force that will lead us to a world of surplus .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for the population .
we just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected between two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new heads that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
until today , they are ruled by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe come back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to desire ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the biggest economic benefits in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better educated by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a sentence of new , never heard before .
how about giving a voice to the oppressed wherever you are , to pay attention to the voice and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that large companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe from 500 years of thinking , we can &apos;t just eradicate rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that nowadays , human pattern recognition better folds the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , it wasn &apos;t a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant to the business clinic in the day , and at night was the best protein maker in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous faith in our future is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would report really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply feathers to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a change piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time to allow myself to give up a piece of my own wrong prestige to make it possible .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season and moving to the world championship .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon and turns to statistics and to use it to create a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to get into a statistic that i hope most of you have heard before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 if a bat beat 300 .
that means that the player certainly beat three out of 10 strokes .
that means the ball hits the outside field , it &apos;s coming up , it &apos;s not going to be caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 300th in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what you call a 400th ?
this is someone who , by the way , is probably four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blind light , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your home doctor tells you that this is a cardiologist whose average performance is at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re sending each of you , including me , to the world , to be perfect with the claim .
never make a mistake , but nobody &apos;s thinking about the details of how to do this .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
in high school , a fellow student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little drove in the nurse residence at toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything i &apos;ve heard of when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane mood of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomy lecture , i learned the origins and the executives of every muscle , every branch of any artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubulatin azidosis .
and all the time , i gathered more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated from cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that , if i knew everything , and i knew everything , or at least as close as possible , as possible , i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while until i met a woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was proposed to the cardiological layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency workers were looking for kardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that , as anyone knows , has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everyone here -- doesn &apos;t always act properly .
and to give feedback to my doctor .
i studied a woman printer , and she was breathtaking .
and when i listened to her , she made eavesdropping sounds .
and when i finished her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she was suffering from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping the whole blood further , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung and filling it up gradually , so the shortcut came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , and i gave her water tablets , so she &apos;s goodbye to the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , he can sometimes feel just paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the listener , and i did what i should have done , which would have been a phone call to my doctor to tell him that he had a chance to take a picture .
and he knew it , he would have been able to contribute additional information to it .
maybe i did it with a good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to worry for my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shaky world of the eclipse , in stone hooks on the fence of the glacier for 18 years , and they &apos;re elected two periods of each nine years to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their light mother , now they &apos;re spending metamorphoric in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but was a poet throughout her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the village of virginia , she was working outside on the fields , and she said she felt and she could hear a poem about the landscape .
so that i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so missing self-confidence that i asked the nurse who cared about a woman printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the descendants and an ambulance and a rescue assistant came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night i had this nasty feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency care is particularly because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words are : remember ?
&quot; remember the patients they sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse was really asking .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular clay .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure station of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she hardly breathed , and she walked blue .
it would roll over the country .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure up .
they attached it to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was crushed to the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster , because she came to intensive care after the stabilization , and i hoped she would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she was never going to wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered up .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they got into the shooting .
the other day they had her go -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt that when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet .
they say that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
for the next few weeks , i made a design , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one swells on blame and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it , and my terrible discussion , if you end up having the bad conscience , and you swore that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do recovery and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i talk about is the one that makes you sick inside .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that she could only do one in such a moment . and that was , in her words , running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure i wasn &apos;t going to be sued .
but i continued to ask these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments : how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , but it made sure .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i might say , i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could be silent .
and she did .
she ran up to the house like the devil while she was pursued by this poem , and it was only about her getting fast enough paper and a pencil , so that she could catch it if she could get through her , and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service at the emergency station in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a full rage .
it was a lot off , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the revenge , and it was a little bit of pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even when he went out the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my boardroom asked me to have a conversation in her office .
and she said the three words : remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through them , and she missed it . she said it was going to move across the country and , as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature rage ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s infected a streptococcence .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google it , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rachens , but it &apos;s the upper respiratory path , and it causes the envelope of the breathing paths .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravested antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , and i felt liberated and went to the work until it came back and back and forth .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve seen two times a blinddarity .
there &apos;s a lot of that , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there were no birds in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget that part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one was , i thought he had kidney stones .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidneys , and when it wasn &apos;t found , my colleague , in the revision of the patient , had a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to review him as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , surgery became operated , and they were fine .
both cases were coming to me , asking me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my claws happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and unsupported .
so , she runs to the house looking for the paper , and the poem goes through it , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through it and then -- she said -- it was like having her other hand reach for it and get it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish up with my mistakes and talk about them , if i have the quiet voice that tells me what really happened , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so you don &apos;t commit the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard of someone talking about failures ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about any other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support , and start to tell them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before they really got uncomfortable , anybody would come up with a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew or my colleagues that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off the wrong leg , believe me that i had problems looking in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a totally denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make . the ones that constrain sleep deficits and the ones that have no limitation , the results that are bad and the results that are good .
she caught the poem on his tail and pulled it back into her body and took it on the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological response like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s an idea that if we banned those who make mistakes out of medicine , we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first articles that i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we work in a system where errors are happening every day , where one in 10 medications is either a false or false , where hospital infections are always becoming more and more affluent and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , approximately 24,000 canadians die of complete errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is deciphering the number of 100,000 .
both of them are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t really look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all this time , they are culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up with it .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with a breast pain .
then i take the same patient with a chest pain , and i sweat him and i give him a little bit of an alcoholic breath , and suddenly the story is translated with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of that , in summary , errors are inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i was taught , and you put out all the flawed health professionals , then there &apos;s no one left at all .
when i heard that , i thought that &apos;s creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know about the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to anyone from the rescue assistant to the boardroom , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i show him with the microphone .
and then your pupils are expanding , they &apos;ve come in front of your head , and then they &apos;re looking down and swallowing , and they &apos;re starting to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that &apos;s going to make it happen .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , knowing for his humanity , accepting her , is not proud to make mistakes , but puts everything out of her to learn so that she can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
she supports when others talk about her mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not just to make them , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and it works in a medical culture that recognizes that people are filling the system with life , and if it is , people are also making mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to make backups that make it easier to make mistakes that make people inevitable , and also enabling loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for them , and that specifically for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of those .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
but i &apos;m a regret , but i &apos;m best trying to learn from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember me .
i &apos;m a mouthful . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day , get tired and get really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about transformative standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you may think he was finishing , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my multicultural species , sometimes this thing has been riding up .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos , or from other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we still get to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate another concept , which is the transformative range of the day .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the palms &apos; lagoon and a few mangroves was surrounded .
there was a bunk barbaria of about 20 inches , black kinnacle brothers , an underspecies of the buntbaria .
the fisheries of this barbaria were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on it , and they earned very well in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half of its size .
they grow five inches .
they had been genetically pressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source of mine that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also fortunate to be there .
so it didn &apos;t change , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my involvement in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe was funding a lot of development projects .
fishing has meant countries that have already caught 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
i went on it , and we made surveillance all over the southern southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we caught there .
now i know it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the ocean came to deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you take a survey and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changing . because , in this case , a hard reason or a soft coral is going to be matching .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten ; they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we started a living one .
she had not drowned .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of rubber is collected by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to this without losing our minds , but actually keeping ourselves in mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it &apos;s changing over time . it &apos;s changing , because for people , of course , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a order of change .
for me , the best living example of how you can do this is the musician tom waits , and i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , they just want to get the badly remains .
that &apos;s mostly what we &apos;re going to do now .
we want to get things that are gone or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem was looking at people who certainly , when they were living in predator societies , they were killing animals , and they were only aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurrence of animals .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a great loss .
over time , we focus on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out one day , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to shine on the tracks of the beautiful landscape , all of a sudden , what they &apos;ve learned in abstract is going to be confirmed in astonishing , and the priest comes back and says , &quot; do you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embodied modern artist who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and to deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s a little bit of fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is why people accept that .
well , because they don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence that they have in an earlier form is not the way they would like to demonstrate the evidence .
for example , there is the anecdote that the report of a chapter soundso , who was watching big fish progeny in this area , can &apos;t be used , or not by fishing scientists , usually because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the huge role that a marine protected area can play .
because by marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re restoring the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me he was driving on a highway in los angeles one day , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area and can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and shades , you might remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by this -- except for the pocahoneybee story , why were they so touched by the imagery ?
because it calls something that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron to spin &quot; avatar ii . &quot;
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody that , as it often is in inspiration , is very difficult to grasp it , and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s leaning after that , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf with precedent text from this typewriter .
the reason for that is that the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do this , and how much that would constrain freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , that page has printed bright yellow spots on every page , in a pattern that clearly lets the page go back to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and that was an example of how our own governments are using the technology against us , against citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a cassette recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exist today .
let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a lot of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires , who have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song in time .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watt .
bjorn sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegal by , for example , using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re shopping over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency , two months ago , was the swiss account of mr. jain here , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;d like to suggest that today it &apos;s more likely that we &apos;re going to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes are going to play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest attack group that we see today is not motivated by money .
you &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or by your audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main groups of attacks : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who do it resistance , but the last group are nations , governments who run the attacks .
we &apos;re looking at cases like diginotar &apos;s .
it &apos;s an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
in the last fall , it had to report insolves , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in , and they had hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to ask if he could do it , because of the diginotar hack , people had died .
but instead of going into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in the aftermath of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate requires , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now , we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around their conversations .
but you know , if you &apos;re in an alien .
certificate hacks and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he finished the whole thought , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 was the headquarters of egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
there was a folder in these records called &quot; finher . &quot;
and in this folder , the notes of a local company in germany who had sold some programs to the egyptian government that they could -- in a very large scale -- capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans found , and this was a trojan who was used by german government officials to decompose their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty safe to tap your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , excuse me , can &apos;t you see me driving ?
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state straddler to play their computer with a trojan who allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it &apos;s not because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write down a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while we now , in 2011 , may trust our governments , every right that we &apos;re giving away is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we need to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measurements that fit together .
concrete bricks very quickly became the world &apos;s most used construction unit .
they put us in a position to build things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connected stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones have been produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , mutually stacked tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a big difference : the transistor was just experts .
if not , squawks are someone else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred , light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect to magnets .
that &apos;s not how you can put them around wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input and orange is cable .
go and squirt leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue one and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
they add a blue to a green one , and they can make light .
they can put a switch in between , and so they made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they &apos;ve made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or solved , littlebits allows them to program intuitive gestures with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate the blink or slow down , you just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve spread littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in everyday life that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
like , for example , a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had , for example , designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just karton , wood and paper -- and we told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confettio cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a bumblebee of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics became just another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design templates and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , is ours .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climb that surrounds it was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he did nothing but the anger and left him where he came from , and he realized it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , tormenting thing .
there could be a peculiar , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed the way i worked , and it saved me a little bit .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process of eat , pray , love . i fell into one of these grubs of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is going to be the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are the younger brothers , are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think that i should just put the project in .
but then i remembered tom speaking in the sky , and i tried it .
so i took a look at the manuscript , and i talked about my commentary in a blank corner of the room .
i said loud : listen , you know , you &apos;re doing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to check up here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then for the devil .
i &apos;m going to keep writing anyway , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to leave you with protocol that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... in the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered people to monthly with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these were always great because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but over and over , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became overworld .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like time to stand still and the dancer walk through a kind of pforte , and he did nothing but he ever did -- 1,000 nights before , but everything assembled .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be pure human .
he was lit up from the inside and illuminated from the bottom , and everything was lit through a divine fire .
when that happened , people knew what that was . they called it his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing : allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moses of southern spain conquered this practice . the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , which you still hear in stiero and flamenco dances .
every time we think about innate and landscape , we either complain about rousseau and the old framework of the nobling wild herd , which in its simplification is a racial thought , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical : it &apos;s allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , unbelievable , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer wearing a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortality with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never go back to those heights .
and maybe someone will never call god &apos;s name again when he turns . but what will he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be that full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe in the beginning , that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- of an unthinkable source of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i certainly think in the last few months , while i was working on the book , which will soon appear -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly anticipated successor of my descendants .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about it is : don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he might be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the stupid divine genius that you &apos;re put aside makes a decision for a brief moment to show a throat of miracles through your effort , it &apos;s olé !
and if not , still dance .
and it &apos;s olé ! it &apos;s all for you .
i believe it and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of space for this in the malaria swamps of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they &apos;ve yet , through time and ritual , formed a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist , because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
it &apos;s olé ! in spite of all of you , just for having the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the lower 48 states , had shrunk 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t really express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter ; and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is looking at the frozen reason for the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s staring up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate-changing materials in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we cross that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane from the water itself .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another flat lake of work last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat heat heat is from greenland north .
it means that a little kid from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind , who will be or determine their destiny , will become a completely different human being , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of rocks that can be discarded .
this is an annual diving river .
but volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level is going through land ice sheet , it &apos;s going up into the sea .
these rivers are adding rapidly .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has emerged over a few underwater islands , is particularly powerful in melting .
this corresponds to 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s an insurgency of a mind or a bunch of inertia , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the water levels have increased .
but when you settle , most of the drinking water is going to fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austroke in the world leads to a dramatic increase in fires .
and the catastrophes all over the world have increased in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day into the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both across the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia and believed that these forests were there to be rounded .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal ducts and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year on calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i went home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow of america in our entire country .
this was happening around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a delight , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests of the insurgency of hukuk and the curved heavens and the cannibalic spirits that live in the northern world , spirits that they would be involved in their hamatsai initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable and it &apos;s loving , and workers are staying in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , a part of it .
at the coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
that &apos;s why we set it to the top line , to spend a significant amount of money , to get a commercial in the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it &apos;s still smelling good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quietly .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s do a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is quite loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of the clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , which is remarkable clean coal technology that you see here , changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean coal-fired technology today .
finally , the positive alternative is mixed with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting the earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i took just last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon dioxide , like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
it &apos;s going to restore america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
take care of america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard of , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shamanas .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
new america &apos;s supply . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time of your childhood when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab your hands , pick up the blades and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial connections .
the spatial thinking is very closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction we have with real objects -- together with my professional patti and my colleague , jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we could use computers , which would be like a mouse cursor , which is moving like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and physically take data and put it on the way we want ?
this question was so striking that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a silicon is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks by extending your hands and reaching .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and become aware of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the subtleties of our interaction with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;ll start with some simple examples .
this sideable is configured for the video review , and when i tip it in a direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin five and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , it makes you interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tilt .
an interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shaking colors as you do with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shake back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and we want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci episode that i create with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round of random random letters , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomami , you know , you &apos;re screwing this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get mixed again , and you have a new combination of letters and you have new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out , and i took a video of it .
they really loved it .
an interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack up the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
to snap this powder is kind of like being shot out of a ribbbon , chatted by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickster twist .
we wanted to develop a learning tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he is leaving the sun up .
the sun goes up .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the prisoners and putting them side-by-side , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , it &apos;s a resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story of open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live records that we &apos;ve recently developed and operate as a sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these notes into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you put them in by just holding a clay bar on a sequence bar .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filter .
you connect it to a certain tone , and then you tend to put it in .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who has introduced the psychedelic appointment with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , and i argued that you couldn &apos;t organize these tryptamins as a hallucinogen , because at the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re no longer there to experience a hallucination .
and then even more mind-boggling effects like speed and volume that you use on the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to eat the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and arrange it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i add a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to combine the filter with the bass , for a little more expression .
i can make the sequence as it &apos;s going around .
so , i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , i can improvise them ; i have them expanding or shortening during the course of it .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally because , of course , through a human intestine enzyme called monoamine oxidase , denaturized .
and finally , i can shut down the whole sequence by reaching the volume to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better to how our brains and bodies work .
and today i &apos;ve had time to show you some of this new design world and some of the ways that we work on our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of tools to interact with digital media , to bring information to our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good day .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be associated with some other chemicals that are orally incorporating the mao denaturics .
i &apos;ve got to pick up a little bit about this , and that &apos;s biohacking , which is about modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been studying biohacking for a few years now , and i started this because i just wanted to know more and i wanted to do it myself , which is what i &apos;ve learned theoretically in studying .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general is now , so generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on it , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , already , is extremely important and much , much more important will be in the future .
there are some controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the eckers .
there &apos;s now craig venter in the u.s. , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
now , there are things that have arrived in the everyday world , but most people are not aware of , like wash enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and that &apos;s an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now , the fascinating thing is that the bekarboline , which is contained in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that is necessary to potentially potentize the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this , this technology , i &apos;ve just continued to go on .
so why hack that ?
most people know this from the software field .
computers hack , and then it will always be like this in the media , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and steal data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacker scene , because that &apos;s not what it really started , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can be a social problem , it can also be a problem with access , which is how things simplify , so any problem you want to throw up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also been electronics , there &apos;s also a whole assembly scene that &apos;s going on with electronics circuits doing all kinds of things .
and now i want to take this metaphor that &apos;s coming out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because the d.n.a code is an abstract code that yes , it &apos;s not exactly the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program that , and you can hack it like that , and that &apos;s what i found incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
it &apos;s actually only taken about two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india , but now has members or active people all over the world .
these are a little bit more artistic , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborators with scientists who are looking at these technologies and asking questions and processing them creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , such a playful way of dealing with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the u.s.a network , which is actually a kind of forum where you &apos;re sitting and discussing online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and then they &apos;re going to ask questions like this , and they &apos;re going to be asked .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , they &apos;ve come up with a scene that i want to portray for a moment .
in the upper left here , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility where everybody can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there just to deal with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
here on the lower left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber called the one that &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
it &apos;s been longer than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics , and they &apos;re combining it in a very remote way .
a group of ankara that i met a while ago , and they have this is a group of students who wanted to give the public what they learned in college , and they &apos;ve made little actions on street , and they &apos;ve tried to explain what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other picture in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the topic .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination with technology .
and what you can do with it , and also , quite targeted to go to society and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have any interest in bringing you in ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology now , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or , in a way , what you normally understand under a lab , these are sort of descended machines , extremely expensive , extremely distanced , only for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. students and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , ok , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine actually has higher advanced technology than most laboratories , it &apos;s really like this .
and s o with this premise with this premise , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam coat , a heat plate , and , yes , so soup brothers , and then grew bacteria .
so anyone who &apos;s been playing a soup that they &apos;ve been left for too long has been done .
so i tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i stopped buying second-hand devices on ebay and do some d.n.a analysis , trying to get a father &apos;s test , so that &apos;s like a fingerprinting , and then doing it at home .
now that shouldn &apos;t be a joke , actually .
now , at the bottom of this picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s such an advocate garage with all kinds of lab scaffolding that university has done , a group in paris that has done something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and it &apos;s pretty interesting things , so i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this yes , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , so you can see it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s what people are doing in the home alone , all the way to large , larger organizations that are already doing it more formally in institutionalized forms .
so , what does that mean ?
but always , the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , okay , so we &apos;re now as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then came from the do-it-yourself website of the founders , and said , okay , we &apos;ve got to meet , we &apos;ve got to actually meet , we &apos;ve got to do real meetings , and then we &apos;ve organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and just after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and then it &apos;s also about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what are our targets , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
it was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , their and what &apos;s moving him , then .
that &apos;s where , in my opinion , a very good code came in .
and then we didn &apos;t have that in common , but that &apos;s true , i think , has done pretty well , people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but somehow it didn &apos;t get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest that seems to be a form for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what are we doing for projects now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was we wanted to build something called the optical trap or the optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , so like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get that , and then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , and we turn the lens off , and then you have a microscope that &apos;s about four hundred times bigger .
you see that down there .
and then we screwed a d.v.d brenner apart and pulled the laser out and then tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we still learned a lot about it .
this is another project that came out of the french group from paris , which worked out , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s kind of a brain wave measuring device , e.e.e.g or something like that , so he &apos;s been busy with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , it was running .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves have been measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , then different lights have come in the room .
it was a pretty fate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating , reproducing , d.n.a , reproducing fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the scene of the crime , then they go , they collect some hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest to go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyfield , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve come up with two builders , and they &apos;ve said , okay , we &apos;re going to make it easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve just gotten out of open source , which is available hardware , electronics , assembled this device , and they &apos;re now the ones that have actually taken this to market power and are now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think , sort of , six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it becomes more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very lovely hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure pistol , which shoots about this far , two inches or so .
you load d.n.a to gold particles and then the gold particles into this air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i made them glow with it .
so the device that you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , which looked like a little bit like this , on a branch like this , the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure on it , and that was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juicer and i attached it to it .
so it turns out that you take every one of the 17 variants at the full moon and you sing them in a different tone .
a juicer , if you do the full power of water , it has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six .
and then you can accelerate the particles well enough , and then they go into the onion as well .
and the commercial device costs about 50,000 euros upward or something like that , juvenile donors by 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so this is actually the core issue of the scene right now to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and not a chance to form really well .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you did it yourself or saw it yourself .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be an informed citizen to be able to make meaningful decisions in society and to talk to you , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to make it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
and that then , under the headwords , is open knowledge and citizen science .
so that , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who have at least officially contributed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a pretty remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re there , there are fewer people in there than there are .
so i know about some who haven &apos;t contributed .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
and partly with these hackerspaces , so these places are put together there .
