you know , one of the great reasons in traveling and one of the joys in ethnographic research is to live with the people who can remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rainy stones , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world are a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important to the earth as the biological food web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the innate , look at them as orginial and colorful , but somehow they &apos;re limited to the past , while the real world , which is our world , is progressing .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-hundred , fifty .
and this has now become a gigantic network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to keep spreading , and then we &apos;re also very well connected , so that people can get more involved .
and i would invite each time to engage with this and also try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
so , the fact is that you will remember the 20th century , in 300 years , not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather , the era in which we were against and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work for people ?
this is a question that i &apos;m very moved by as a designer , but also in the field of research usability , and in front of all things in the field of user experience .
it &apos;s about how you encounter people in interactive media , so that they can use these interactive media and make them a very satisfying experience .
because i think the interactive media in us addresses archaic , cognitive models , which is thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can recreate them just by interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech that you &apos;re encountering , that it actually brings you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , with our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i just wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain that for a second .
to archaic cognitive models , and that is that these are the models that we have acquired in the pre-industrial times .
one of these archaic models is that we have basically natural relationship with virtuality .
it sounds kind of unusual , basically .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new opportunities for life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to show you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
the second thing is that since we &apos;ve been through these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very formally , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which contains the sensitivity of linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we feel the linearity as normal today .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information passed on .
so what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove this to you .
how many doors do you have the house that you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer it to me spontaneously , but this is going to happen and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not the technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling to show , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do this all the time .
and that wealth to virtualize the reality that people have had to have in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photographics .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory was played .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being less on sioux than they did bow and arrow tasks when americans stopped being horses and horse cars .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , it was also passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
what &apos;s interesting about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , the human being was at the same time media producer and medium itself .
now , if you think a piece further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but i &apos;ll talk about that in a minute .
the basic tool of information mediation has always been stories .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shamanes , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were extra to keep knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong on stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gottschall , we still combine a thousand hours a year with the reception of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life recepting stories to the achievement of the great year in his life .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
that goes way back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but to me , in the field of interactive media , what &apos;s so impressive is that we &apos;ve been anchoring in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought an example to you of the north american tribe of nootka indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , it &apos;s a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate , get from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what we call lead-maps .
you may know that already , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , in the australian inhabitants .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-maps , they &apos;ve used the so-called songlines or the trauma thread .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be depicted on songs .
where the language was under-ordered by the under-ordered rang .
that means you navigated over sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have represented the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , has enabled you to defragment these songs and put them differently and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from above a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
it &apos;s happened to the age of the gene machine .
we &apos;ve moved to what we call the bird age before .
and the machine age happened , and it happened , and it happened , and it &apos;s the photographics .
and that &apos;s what has happened is that we have shifted responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories on external media .
the book and the image .
so , unfortunately , we have a piece of god to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the image , so not television , the internet , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media has fossilized our memories and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people , is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and diverse as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has an impact on our thinking and on our memory ?
then these are fading influences of the pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re going to be more and more spelled over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we don &apos;t produce ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language called abstract .
we don &apos;t think of it in pictures anymore , things are not in pictures anymore , but we &apos;re coding them in our language .
we &apos;re used to things linear happening .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibet if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions like the non-linearity .
what we were left with is the story telling .
still , we &apos;re very , very arrested to the narrative as information mediation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vogue age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what &apos;s called the cyber-age .
it sounds very space-tuned , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage , they bring us these opportunities to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain a little bit about that .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been generated by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i went to lhasa with a young colleague , 6,000 miles from chengdu in western china , across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , it &apos;s a concept of what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which means our affinity to virtualization , which is to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is addressed again .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically into non-existing virtual worlds , all the way through the model of the holodeck .
and other examples are the ambient , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that are intelligent to a human being .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin in krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so that you can talk to the two about the project at the break .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how to address this archaic , cognitive model again .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as a follower of the panel lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to have your eyes that some people are happy in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with any console in their hand .
anyway , they do that in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s targeted to discover the outside world , so i &apos;m exploring the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in a moment , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and it &apos;s about me exploring a city by looking at the places where positive or negative is being tweeted .
that meant that during the chinese invasion , he was immediately killed .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city in this way .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , excuse me , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize this in my talk , in the sense that the characteristics and skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vow age , and that have gone a little bit blurry in the machine age , that the ones that are called the cyber age can be re-activated , and that , in this way , we &apos;re getting complex , technological , new products , not in the future , but actually come back to us .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very excited to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this bag is a talking sack , and it &apos;s going to be mine rather than speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her sacredness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just doing it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a designer of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change our thinking , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to repel it , and so on .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re looking at next to being a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put in such &quot; n &quot; research semesters .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all of the designers begin to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what is actually natural for us humans , what is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crime .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , so the next generation of human computing , in the relationship of human computing , is how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer sukzessive to digital assistants .
so i &apos;ve been looking at it , when is natural or intuitive ?
maybe you have to look back at it .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , just briefly represented here , we &apos;re now moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern life to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning of the tribal society through language .
that means that you &apos;ve found yourself , by talking to a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved to the same cave , or you &apos;ve created cities , or you &apos;ve created villages , and you &apos;ve sort of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no toddler can talk about nature , but we learn it sukzessive and proportionately .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive , i start and i start it in stone , and i also manipulate it .
depending on how i throw , and when i shoot , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing to do .
but sukzessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got in .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today is primarily .
this is just the printed and print coined script with gutenberg and others .
it was a monkey ront , where adel , klerus and others have said , you &apos;re actually crazy when people start reading , they want to talk afterwards , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is that , you know , a shift in generation is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re going to be doing something like this .
and of course , this completely confuses us , because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
the sister who did this brave action was brought into an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what &apos;s banging on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne of horses and no beef is anymore or other phenomena , which is i just want to do that and i want to do it .
and these two worlds are banging up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not at the local level anymore , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the subject of ecology is a global issue .
not , if i think locally ecologically , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means that from the local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitively , but also total transparency .
as you knew in the village then , who has what happens to whom and when , this is happening today about the expansion of our self through these mobile devices at a global level .
whether it &apos;s that we know globally and aggregate faster and better .
one day , she walked out of adversity to a wristband of maos , and for that exposure , she had to go into a heavy job camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
in the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at it , what does it mean , what &apos;s natural for us , what is it that we may have lost , but what is it that &apos;s instinctive for us , so what does it make a difference ?
because often people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly , so that anyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not only do you change it , but it &apos;s going to be better .
and when , of course , is a little intuitive , and how can i take an impact on it , and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re very intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun , and they &apos;re easy to use .
and you &apos;re looking at it , even in college , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look at it and say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside the self .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does , of course , mean , intuitive and how do our channels work in perception , and how does cognitive processing work ?
suffering tibetans can be intolerable , but people &apos;s redemption is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to be dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something usable or intuitively handable , which means at the core .
and you can see that we have our seven senses , most of us think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven , and certainly in the near future , there &apos;s the next , eighth sense , and as an extension , again , again , of ourselves .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
by itself , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand in the core , in the essence , when does information become information , when does information become information , and from information , so that i know how to do things afterwards as intuitively as possible , as well as manual .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
we see this , when i make things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and at the end , we &apos;re really ahead of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , when they &apos;re right , they &apos;re going to be thinking about where &apos;s in there .
and the one on the left is just intuitively access , and i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in there , which is the salt .
but also , our perception itself is fooling us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the little one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said before she died that it &apos;s her greatest fear , that as we move towards a thread , unshaped , generic view of the world , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there have ever been other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is already beginning to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and then if i put another halboval on , we don &apos;t just see one more unit , which is circle , circle and circle , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see three parts , one circle , one circle , one circle , another .
it &apos;s called the shape-reviewing law , or the shape-shifting psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great shape laws .
form law of the nearby , shape-based law of continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget about it .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things very intuitively , too .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s really exciting when you get more busy doing it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes on the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
namely , they projure an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just going to projure our vision before we see it , put it back in our sehedge to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got this cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projured what you want to see .
so that &apos;s there , and then that comes back .
and then it goes forward again , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and it says , now , really look again , and i &apos;m sure if what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what happens for millisecond areas of these things .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and that &apos;s when we were in the cult of the seed grain , the poetry of the shame replaced by the prose of priesthood and hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who you know this picture .
that &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes what .
does anybody see something in particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you always see it .
the modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now that you don &apos;t see any pattern in there anymore , but i &apos;ve designed you to see this dog in a very short time , over and over again , in this blurry picture .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projieving forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which then is in this , yes , gray is actually not , but it &apos;s actually not here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well wait times when i do it by engaging someone with three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
that &apos;s what he has to do first as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly wait times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what is it that takes five milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period you fall in love with .
that means , contempt , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a election for what can happen .
and sixteen milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that means that first impression is happening at a rapid speed , as we see things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , what we &apos;re paying attention to , and how we sort of infer ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it accordingly .
of course , the designers are not just about the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily about the subject of human-object relations .
so how does a human being deal with certain things .
there are , in fact , the practical functions , the formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signs functions , where i know exactly where i have to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why is it that somebody &apos;s going to give for such a little bit of a plot where hardly anything is going to fit in , so horrendous sum of money , even though it &apos;s not that practical ?
there we are more like the symbolic , at the level of meaning , which we are , of course , concerned with as designers .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which , of course , is usability .
usability always means how can i achieve a certain target , or how can a user in a certain usage context be able to achieve an effective , efficient and satisfying goal .
that &apos;s what the norm says .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible to use friendly ?
can i use that directly , or do i need the manual , or do i need a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
i &apos;m just doing this differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at some of the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is not intuitive or not usable on name , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
it &apos;s not just an intuitive usability since apple , a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i want to use technology to people .
why ?
because most of the time , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , we &apos;re about five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , it takes five hours and with this new kind of natural software , just one hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal jagd with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re going to be allowed to go home probably four hours more , but you &apos;re going to have your employer , or somebody &apos;s going to think about you in the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to make certain things as well .
if we go back to the software area , the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have been working with nem &apos;s neural model , or mental model , like the software of eergonomists , came up with an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not anymore zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it much more user-friendly , but it &apos;s also , of course , much better .
the next generation of graphic user interface is already working a lot more on behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape the behavior than what it looks like .
it &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , i look increasingly unimportant to success , just the usability becomes an application .
the canadian government has not always gone very well with the inuit , and over the course of the 50 years in the course of the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move in settlements .
and then if i go one more step further into these natural user interfaces , where , by voice , by touch , by gesture , by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and even more immediate .
but that also brings me back to the point where things get more intuitive ?
if you get more intuitive , and then i have to go back and punish my little friend here and see , what does that mean from a cognitive perspective , when is it really a little intuitive ?
and that &apos;s a little intuitive for us humans , when i don &apos;t have to think about it a little bit .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t want to think , but he just does it in proportion .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transmit existing action models from one to something else , like the metaphor , i can use that as a shape .
that is , i can transfer an intuitive human action model to software and make the software much more user-friendly .
now , the question , of course , is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us humans , and i &apos;ve already given it to you ?
this old man &apos;s grandfather refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym and stands for more oriented , selective , informed , transaction .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it does it unconsciously , and it does it kind of intuitively , or partly instinctively .
the model is already exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s interculturally , so it works around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to 70 thousand times after activity , so in the sleep , you found that it &apos;s going to be less frequently punished than the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , of an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of usage kindness than that of transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i &apos;m going to sort out as a supervision , selecting as a choice , informing in the trap , it &apos;s going to come up to me , i can look at it in the detail , and yes , transaction , i can throw that somewhere , or send someone in and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we &apos;re capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was afraid of his life took all the guns and all the tools off .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten pies .
now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;m going to get the whole overview , and i can now filter this and say , just show me all the things with chocolate , for example .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can reach things like the bits , and they come up to me , it &apos;s much more natural than when you get over hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , in a way , can make these things accessible .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d also like to close with giving a and the clue , and designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you &apos;re a child , when you &apos;re a baby , is that you care about what excrements you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play more or less in the pottery and whip , the more , so to speak , your curiosity is , of course , blown up .
and the curiosity is not learning .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically this whole environmental discussion , world setting , 40-year club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
they give + every day about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the glides of their sled were originally made from fish wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take phosphorus and abandon it .
it &apos;s amazing that we &apos;re looking at something that would actually be self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and already , through the phosphorus mining , there &apos;s a lot more uranium that &apos;s being used in all the nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the waving storm .
so , for example , shoot the environment , drive less cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s as if i said , shoot your child , beat it three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weight to the bathroom , our whole earth will sooner or later become a cemetery .
that &apos;s why thinking about the weigh and the weighing .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , and he put his pants down from sea fur , and he defeated into his hand , and when the feces started to freeze , he formed them into the shape of a knife .
right now , we &apos;re building corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or at the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more on the ground than is reformed .
we can , of course , first look at the waste problem .
and everything is packaged or content .
for example , in openbach , the house waste is winding 20 percent of the garbage .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger .
so this is all of them in the pre-wind phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecali-knife , and when it was frozen , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
that &apos;s completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s a proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs about the solid ingredients .
in the people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s what &apos;s going on , right ?
he was holding the dog and improvising a dish , taking the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvising a sleeve , relaxing another dog , and leaning over the ice sheets with the fecalian knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you talk to the people who are talking to the people , if you say that &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they get subtle and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , when you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites in that far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means the ants weigh much more than we do .
so you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work much more physically than we do , and because they only live for three to six months , they &apos;re a little bit in weight , in energy consumption , a little bit of 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are from what we really wanted to get , and how sad we are , that we &apos;re at all on earth , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , until twenty-four , you want to be here , climate-neutral , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this is , in many ways , a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
fortunately , not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
you &apos;ve heard about this before about overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be dumb as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , yes , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that would really have to go back in circles .
and that &apos;s too many of us .
just above that .
the canadian government gave the inuit in april 1999 the full control over an area larger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-farming , no bioland , no natural progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
that &apos;s too many of us .
it &apos;s safe to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you shooted yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was very dismissed , it happened at the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new homeland , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil , where we regain the nutrients .
directly , we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste of it .
in china , a nachttopf is still called honey pot , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that means the whole western civilization-story is that the city has always taken up , but never gave back to the farmers .
and as a result , cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded until they no longer made the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve made breeding civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you expect the food to stay , until you pick up the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat them , not to feed food theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
what &apos;s really nice about this is , if you do this , you make agriculture , you create biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , so a farmer can produce about a thousand-and-a-half hundred dollars , and wait for the plant to grow chickens and pigs and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over ninety-nine percent .
an astonishing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed in this way by the design that a farmer can just run them .
that means that the crime goes back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 in the last 20 years , none of these plants have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw a liter alk so easily , and then over the years , the facility would be ruined .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals on earth , to realize that they &apos;re not at all removed .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do what you want to do , write down , in germany , best of all the clarity plants in frfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the fraud a little bit .
because the frankly plant could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been in holland for three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they are the countries of someone .
but we need it all together .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seven percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus resources .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
these are six-and-twenty-four countries controlling 40 percent of the oil supply .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you &apos;re not going to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and first of all , to ask what &apos;s the right thing to do .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past time , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;re angry at her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s very effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
there .
that &apos;s not exactly right in science , because we don &apos;t know how much of it is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effectively , yes ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic , ultimately , is we believe that politicians never achieve anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better and deploy it with it and lose all the materials for cycles in the burn facility , but first ask , how do you close circles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with flavor of open water and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website is getting 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that means all that matters in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing it away is just the right thing , right ?
every place you throw away from , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in how we think from the north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
156 nations send our tv channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash the soil away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water stays in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do that with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heart disease , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so don &apos;t save , abuse , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , like the people in the high bow are throwing out of the car like that .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun thing to do .
it &apos;s a form of re4 behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
no biologist , for example , would dare to say that 50 percent or more of all species are just before extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is barely what we &apos;re known as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we do a series of trips to the ethnosphere , where we take our audiences to places of such cultural wonders , that they are being blinded by the blessed , and hopefully , one by one , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural pluralistic world , where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s expanding everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away from biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not all to be composable , of course .
a tv set or a washing machine , and they &apos;re just using it , they &apos;re not using it .
just the things that abuse , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are used only go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , yes ?
very direct advertising , not for the company , puma per se , but for helping this company now make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t do things freely .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , that &apos;s free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we &apos;re discovering what &apos;s in there .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a year ago , just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either locally or remove from enormous amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there , that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian pile , and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of it is composable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all of the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half of all the sewage problems in the world that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help , ask about people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the head of the board twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they really stay there .
so , just help me with this a little bit .
we see lots and lots of gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can get seamlessly and continuously , wasting , rearranging in any way .
but it goes .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been represented .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now that if they &apos;re abandoned , if they &apos;re broken , they can go into biological cycles .
there are technical cycles as well .
there &apos;s a direct back name system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back into the loop .
and that too , so in every store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the winds ?
if it &apos;s right now , it &apos;s waste .
all over the place , these winds are lying around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
there &apos;s on the deponia , but also on the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside , they can just go back to cellulosic base , they can plant hundreds of trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the very beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a domain of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s sort of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything .
i started an institute .
there are a lot of people working there , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra club , cradle-to-cradle club , where everyone can participate .
so not saving , eliminating , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i &apos;m written that as a interpreter , i understand as a translator , which is in the english word sense .
interpreters are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and wortzusm bias , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already , translating from german into english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re dealing with poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very alien for layout what we do with our music language with musicians .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i only have the written notes .
you think the composer wrote into the notes exactly everything he thought he was there .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description of landscape , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the level of the green is just to contemplate , not to hear the acid of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpreter has to translate this inaccurate sound language into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today , i want to translate what i do to musical translate , which is to interpret , translate it into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally important for me to translate the translation of translation .
so , the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of writing .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read and push the keys that are on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the point of letters is that you can only recognize the language .
so for the learning process of music , you need at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a graduate student , whether you learn it for the use of the harbor , just passively understands or you can talk actively , to the musical mother linguistic .
the work of interpreting starts kind of like a theater director .
after selecting a piece to play , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re doing research on the back of the composition .
you collect information about the play in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the tacks , the notes , or whether there are words , the composer &apos;s thoughts .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you hire comparisons .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
the reasons for writing it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
that &apos;s all i &apos;m interested in .
you think into that time by looking at contemporary images , for example , or reading literature .
but over time , as well as an interpret , you have a rich knowledge about the composer you play more and more often , and it makes you easier to think in and feel in it .
the composer becomes more and more the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the composer &apos;s composer , but just a scaffold , i &apos;m now applying this scaffold to refilling it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i &apos;m going to explain what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time and what you might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own personal domain .
it has to be coherent to me in the here and now , or i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been reviving .
how to reexperience a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same piece over and over again .
i got older again a day , changing seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back home than at home .
i see the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also affects my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s also wonderful when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , friendly conversation .
you bring in a new idea , and at the same time , it will be answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we didn &apos;t try that way , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and then you as the audience have experienced how the music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the way i &apos;m going to play at that moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i do in 20 years today .
that &apos;s where i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and that &apos;s why i &apos;m going to have a lot more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i do today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , too , but i &apos;m going to get new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano class for music students at my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a well-known beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was too young so that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early , when i was three years old , and so i was already on his classes at my school .
i was 17 when i went back to one of his classes , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late piece .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballet was for me .
it &apos;s such a tragic part .
and in my adolescence , i said , expectation .
there he was , and he was like , &quot; so ? &quot;
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a segment .
he was already over sixty-six .
well , with 17 of them , you have dreams , but no significant memories .
i &apos;m going to play this piece every few years , and it &apos;s always changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
an example of this from a very different area . monet has painted the seerosen x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , different light .
he translated the seeroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they worked on him in that moment .
his personal impressions of the sea eroses .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
by now , i &apos;m older than chopin at the age of two , when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he &apos;s only lived for 30 years .
and i &apos;m interested in looking back in the notes , even though i mean being able to memorize them .
to keep twins straight with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he &apos;s died .
now , how do you start talking the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
often the music class is that you only learn how to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something in the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
and if all the fingers are in time and right like it is in the notes , then sound comes out that sounds that sound like music together .
when that happens freely , the student gets the next hard piece .
the interpretation is barely spoken in the beginning class .
all right , so there &apos;s presto in the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and quiet signs , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even though you implement these anxiety , it &apos;s still just a little technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added more content .
i wonder that you often forget something quite fundamental .
and that is that to make music on the instrument , your musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing because he didn &apos;t make the parents , he &apos;s not going to do it by himself .
that &apos;s like learning to talk .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to get it to another possibility , which is about an instrument , to sound .
people who have never singed have never felt instantly with their own body , as it is to make a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our body .
to sing our vocal chords , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the continuous coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every single music is made up when you &apos;re constantly sued with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because you haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
in both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to see if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal chords , right ?
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because you &apos;ve coated them that they &apos;re disgusting .
and i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as you say today , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and so you want to have nix .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also agree with them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an out-of-the-box candidate .
but also , don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand the classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to degrade these constraints to the place that &apos;s available on the screen .
i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if it tastes to me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , you don &apos;t get rid of food , just because you can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether you like it or not .
whether or not music is too sweet to you .
tell you what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want a little bit more spices , or even taste of fine differences .
now why do i challenge my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that it doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art that you never look at has no power to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef has to be eaten and not just looked at or traded by recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice sound plate .
if in an environment where the adults are making active music , or at least hearing active music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower before , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different than before .
so that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , or even a hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there were no piano at the moment as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the soundscape of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now make the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing to sound , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
and beethoven also knows that he heard more than he had already turned deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra rejected at the time as unplayful .
so the composers depend on us to reinvent the pieces .
so they become audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think today .
or what i &apos;m going to do today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s tired ?
have you ever been neidish ?
and what did that feel like ?
suck .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and when i come , with my little v w piesel and i , i &apos;m wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting a little bit through my head .
but these are all the streets in the united states .
i say , ulf , what do you need that big car ?
now , that &apos;s going to lose half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you work a lot less than me .
why do i have to afford that little car ?
and then i come up immediately , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way of making such uncomfortable feelings like envy just disappear .
you can also try that with words like revenge or revenues or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or get something that &apos;s unconsciously familiar with you .
overloaded at the top of nasa &apos;s exhilarating image .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then stones flourish , so he &apos;s blocking your vision .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with fooling yourself .
you need this lie to keep a lifespan to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , review , or also collapse .
you need time .
now let &apos;s take something else out .
this time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answers , just wait .
they get more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is and how much time it takes to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with the lie .
the artist is sharing something with them , and most of all , this lady , what she doesn &apos;t see when she &apos;s just looking in the mirror .
the artist shares with you in such a portrait something that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism with which we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and not only in art , even in the folk , in the mythology , it appears again in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who &apos;s the most beautiful thing in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility is out of this real origin , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , can &apos;t be escaped from this true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do under politically correctness , to bring it back and forth .
we need this lie at this point that holds us up to deception without which we can &apos;t live .
not only do we have in art , in the folk poetry , but in science , we have such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischop of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of the species and the ancestry of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey , and , yes , at least there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , &quot; that &apos;s probably not true what charles wrote . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to stop people from getting knowledge of it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of something if it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without this lie of life .
because we have this self-deception , this sense of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists in it , comparable to a rock , and whatever things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the consultancy of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t even bear these things .
we have to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to resolve , and what the traces that it leaves , that lead to something other than us in this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a propensity for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft &apos;s research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotech things .
yes , you feel it already when you &apos;re healer at this point . something &apos;s wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being uses the word in a moral justification , we should try to replace it with the word .
do that , and then you get the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the shelter .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in the fire .
he &apos;s interested in fire .
but there are no clubs that we can look around where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the totality of the vocabulary or a series of grammar .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he was signing up .
and you know , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and enjoy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better when we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can only do when they fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this is a clue that in the heart of the bub , he already knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps right away without being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
and so it &apos;s just the words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create this kind of view where we can go through images and make this experience of multi-fold resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
what logic of this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the ones that we actually know in the most unconscious way that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
i want to present to you two , perhaps three examples .
the first example predicts what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , which says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not gavage , material nature .
and if you have people who are convicted of the solid belief that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , they think of it as if the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not from matter , they &apos;re just from meat and blood , something stone , something that &apos;s sort of built to the earth , devoid , unimportant , yes dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and from that soul , you now think that you &apos;re kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called the latin , the air thylacine .
and if that air hall poured over the human being , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so she &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to perceive them as something that &apos;s supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of you , you understand the logic that we experience this happiness to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three phrases you still know from school .
now this is a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have stuck these pictures together so that they can disagree with the real space in which these images were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see here elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related .
that &apos;s the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie that you can just use this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences occur .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if it &apos;s clear , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i &apos;ve highlighted it in particular here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and here you feel it already .
here &apos;s the logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the channel is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can claim anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when cloning says there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceptive consciousness immediately feels , you can do something about it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends to be the opposite of the first sentence already proven and predicted .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic , which just uses it , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one , which looks like it &apos;s got something to do with it , so we can save our lifespan .
so , we pretend it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from a early prototype of photosynth that we first worked on in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , which is photosynth-technology , and this is not so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daily newspapers .
this is what you have to think of as another philosophical topic , a permanent killer from philosophy .
that has to do with us going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel that &apos;s made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
it &apos;s such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact right in the middle between two equally big haves , he &apos;s starving .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how things are introduced to nature .
same size forces with prescription signs dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
it &apos;s only when you take another example , so if it immediately makes a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need a reason and nothing to do .
it automatically runs to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re also here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar who &apos;s called wolf singer , and you sometimes say , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedame notre , who was only in the computer with images of flickr . just type in notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;re going to get pictures of men in t-shirts and in the university camps and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day , that &apos;s what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , if you don &apos;t have freedom of willingness , can &apos;t be drawn to responsibility for your actions and claims , and therefore it &apos;s inadequate .
again , you have it again .
actually , you have to prove to you that there is such a thing as freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of the past is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything , and most of all , if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , once you meet a human being who you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for forecasts , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they all relate in this way .
you &apos;re not allowed to call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one where , of course , there are those predictors , you know , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making it clear that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he &apos;s led them to a stain that he &apos;s not holding himself on .
because , in fact , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there &apos;s predictability .
so , in the kind of shifting of the burden of evidence , you see the brilliance of the lie .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a way to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do it , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember it in that way to your own lie .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good day .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention it .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea to you .
i have to say honestly , you got it , i felt hard to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i may want to introduce my insula project that i &apos;m trying to introduce you to .
but of course , it &apos;s the sum of a lot of ideas .
i probably belong , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been looking for this bad green image , because i &apos;ve already started to study machine engineering in carllage , engineering college , today , i think , called kit .
and then it hit me in the middle of the &apos; 80s to berlin , because i wanted to make renewables , and it didn &apos;t happen in cardboard peace .
you know , i never believed i was going to work at microsoft at the end .
there was the core research facility called leopolar harbor .
they were all called kfa , also the kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but it &apos;s kind of a doofes like n solar pendulum , which kind of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collectively .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium column man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
there was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in crossberg in the courtship , where you suspected the evil .
it was a terrorism location , but it was called woodpecker , and it made wind and sunenergy , and i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today , i &apos;m very touched by the fact that many , many beautiful expressions were there that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
when one said no , the vetoprinzip , it was completely crushing you , and i &apos;ve been doubting for 10 years , i &apos;ve been struggling to see if i could really waste my great engineering college to a very bad thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window in your child .
it &apos;s busy with weakness .
and it was really very , very bitter , and then you get into this sort of phase , and it just came out of the picture , where i wondered , after 10 years , a thousand d-marks , that was , at that time , a basic wage , uncertainty in the collective , of course , whether that &apos;s really what &apos;s going to be great .
and i did it by six to six and a half , and then we became co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with spin-off q-cells .
a huge energetic story , but again , we have the problem of a growing company , and we then have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that &apos;s what i think is going to be the same crazy , again , that starts again with people saying , what &apos;s the rubbish , that &apos;s not going to do , we &apos;re going to talk about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce to you now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , a hundred percent renewable .
i guess you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the cell phone camera to the professional slrs , a pretty large number of them all flipped together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simplistic crazy story , where could you make sense of using a memory today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a fifteen percent renewable energy today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have any more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when they grow more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re doing our facility in berlin adlershof .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated , that was two-thousandth 2006 , started the first contacts with the island , just compute .
how big a battery would have to be , in fact , to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seven percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go on a slide again .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electric power is built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered with faces and so on .
the energy hunger in the world , which is happening , is deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put the box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of that , three of these things are always waiting , two are always waiting .
yes , this is what a bottom line looks like .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind power plant , or the solar plant , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system , which can only eat in small amounts here .
our goal was just to say , okay .
this el is going to be back-up , and the wind , the sun is going to serve the load so that they can map the larger percentage .
somewhere here are a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , which is energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off this .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can sort of take over the entire grid .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way .
nobody in the world has done that .
this is in a small style , so you can also use your scooper in the car over a little bit of a change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing , actually , in adlershof ?
you can do that .
but if you want to put together several of these interchannels , and you want to build a network , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to come to seventh to ninety-nine percent renewables , and then there &apos;s the rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewables , that &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , you do it from batteries .
that &apos;s certainly going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , that &apos;s going to be it .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was really recorded .
they have to go to a seasonal memory , and winter summer , and not just daily night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery .
how far are you going to get ?
and then we did a whole bunch of simulations .
and we &apos;ve simulated wind and sun and the load , and we &apos;ve come to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that you &apos;re facing the conventional system , which takes about 50 cents a mid-stroke , about four and a half cents a kilowatt-hour , for example .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
i &apos;ve been negotiating with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social actors .
we were only five people then to rebuild one to society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this el , and we &apos;re not going through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which means the power company on the island , has meant , we love that .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric proportions of the island one to three very precisely .
that means we &apos;ve been looking for the world to find the largest battery .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment , and it &apos;s now collected data from all -- from all of the collective memory of what , visually , looks like the earth -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt of performance , and it can get that performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we &apos;ve sort of gotten out of simulating technology .
and then we set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that he &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , in fact , the full dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it looks like this now , in the back is the big battery , here &apos;s all the controversy that we &apos;re simulating the net with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission control system , the kilometers of cable physics , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
and of course , we all share the same adaptability .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture can access the material world .
all these pictures are being connected together , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , the one again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done , since two-thousandth of the time , the hall was finished , until today two-thousandth , basically everything that was in between the single system of electronics , developing software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company , which is just between the topic of battery and the topic , and everything in between .
you have to , of course , communicate to the battery , you have to be able to communicate to the net , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing is that on this island , you can basically do everything that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , what &apos;s going to be going on right now , energy turning , how this is going to go , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , ask about it , because you can manage the burden .
that means that if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without memory .
they get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through n smart-grid , you can do it by expanding the nets , yes , you should certainly do it , you &apos;ll hear the percentage , but you &apos;ll never be able to get rid of storage completely .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off this el , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european interconnectedness is basically just made out of loud rotating masses of big power plants , where the wave is always about all around europe .
we look in this net , we see the 50 hertz , and when it becomes nine comma nine hertz , we &apos;re going to catch a couple of valves , then a little bit of merh steam goes in , we &apos;ll get back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , it &apos;s incredibly treaties .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the continuation of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , you can react to something else again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , this rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn this big battery out two milliseconds .
that &apos;s where you can see the tremendous speed opportunity there .
and the message is , we need to get rid of these rotating masses , if we &apos;re kind of 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get to that .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply called the power plant to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building coal-fired power plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gasturbating , because it doesn &apos;t .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also bringing electrochemical memory to the web .
and fortunately , now there &apos;s a lot of studies .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use , is growing and increasing the use of the user with the application .
and then , for that purpose , people always come and look at our experimental state , sort of our insult test .
and yes , the discussion is all about the question of , how far can you go to the future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
if you don &apos;t , it &apos;s weakness , child toys , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculates .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceptual .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores all over the world .
simple , it &apos;s going to come like this .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the beauty is that i &apos;ve experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are on my side .
their own photos are signed with metadata that another person has given in .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects to climb 10 megawatt-battery now to the german net .
this is going to happen next april .
so , from that point of view , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s only from that defense to yes , to the idea , a hundred percent renewable yes .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , that &apos;s like an autarque system .
so , in discussions , these insulanders are always trying to do this , they &apos;re doing autark , they have their own little net , and that has nothing to do with our compound .
and the question is very simple , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy , which is drilled out somewhere in the world and are brought to you , you &apos;re an island .
and then you only use what &apos;s in the sun and the wind where you live .
and that &apos;s a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , the talk of premium kola , is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be quiet and also have a vision .
when someone has been struggling and labeled all these sacred saints and shares who you are , my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverses , which use photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of excess model of social experience with the use of other providers .
and you really have to be pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , the los angeles times columnist , went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves article , a book that was filmed again , robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied juilliary conservatory and ended his promising career tragically through his paranoid schizophrenia early .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos; book , or to watch the film , so that you can understand not just the wonderful interconnectedness that &apos;s arised between these two men , but also how the music helped make this connection , and how it was ultimately the instrument , if this pun is allowed , to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony and came back to the stage to imagine me .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton in a very healthier and social tone about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , all of this is the enormously rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that not only were preserved by overwhelming or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment because he had already been treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic stages , and they &apos;re so bad sometimes , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , walking around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in the same way that a travel stage was nathaniel , when we started with our first lesson at the walt disney concert hall , and he had this irre flickers in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in sleep .
i was afraid , not because of that , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could fall into one of his conditions , and that i could destroy his relationship with the violin , if i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic limb .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that there was a complete change in nathanian &apos;s eyes .
it was as if he was standing under the influence of an invisible pharmaceutical , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels of manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some sections of violin concert , and then asked me to end them : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that , not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also connected him with a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i know only from my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , from this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a loving , educated , excellent , in juilliard , trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i get it right ? their software enables , at a certain point , within the next few years , all of the images that are used by someone in the world is basically linked together ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that &apos;s inside of us all , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to form reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and joins us .
in the case of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;ll always play with nathaniel , whether it &apos;s in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve been reluctantly stolen the cellist .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i know a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , it was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tastier , good consistency , rich , a best-selling fish on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was cultured in aquaculture , supposedly , the highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could talk about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what was this unimaginable problem for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the swordfish , they have collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so i think or bad aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
many arguments against it . fishing plants are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got a food processing from 15 to one .
that is , 15 pounds of wildfish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and she does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the ocean that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed from our fish is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world .
this feed from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that has a lot of these images .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put up .
and that night , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he doesn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to demand .
well , i was telephone with a couple of people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephony with the leading biologist .
like when you do a web search for images , where you type sentences and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
we also call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins , for example ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , remnants , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image linked you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous enjoyer and good person .
in fact , that &apos;s me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish because , i swear to god , who tasted fish after this conversation .
this second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the better you love the fish , the more you love the fish .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had talked about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shameful white color .
then the amount of semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it was cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevation in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did it by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company bought the country with green .
what did they do ?
they have the flow of water upside down .
thank you very much .
they literally flipped the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- barsch , sea eggs , shrimp , aal -- and his company completely reverse the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like that .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see is flood channels and these density , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there a long time ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin , and a part of &quot; a crocodile for kissing . &quot;
okay ? there we were , fighting through the wetlands , and i sweat and sweat , i have matsch up to my knees , and miguel keeps a biology lecture alone .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , i hope , are in conjunction with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glide .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he &apos;s going to go and fall into more just rarely birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community of unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head got weak about this coated piece of delicious fish that i had on the evening .
so i interrupted him . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
now , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-esteem .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
later the day , i went around this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at that moment , it was as if a director had demanded a change in stage .
and we got around the corner , and we got the most incredible sight , thousands and thousands of paintbrushes flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you bad your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a thriving bird population not the last one you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the gut the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works this way : if our goal is to maximize our citizens &apos; well-being , it &apos;s mostly because of the maximization of the individual freedom .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the ground nature is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and every night , they fly 240 kilometers back .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly 240 miles back in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an inexhaustible condition for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me like i just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it sucked . i don &apos;t like it crispy .
it &apos;s this bold , coated flavor .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t shrink into fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he nodded .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense , before something comes into the body .
it has evolved in the course of evolution to soak up uncleaners . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water has no contaminants . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success on its predators &apos; success .
and then i realized , if he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any contaminants , it underpowers enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that takes all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this leaves the water is cleaner than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only a farm that feeds its animals , not only a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators , but a farm that is literally a water supply plant , and not just for these fish , but also for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it decreases in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and you should do that , because that love story , as romantic as , is also a revelation .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that make sure the future is good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common they have .
no , not because we already produce enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not the total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it has determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of vegetable food , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time , the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how awful can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a salary in settlement , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that enables this production .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our cornchamber is now threatened , not because of the declining resources , but because of the declining resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is so deeply in our water supply , i think , that it would not come to you in the sense of questioning it .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in it , and it &apos;s never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s the one that goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
so businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring instead of using , operations that are extensive , instead of just intensive , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the people who are also experts for flavor .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
and if i want to bring you one thing today , it &apos;s that the total data that we consume is greater than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information so that you can use patterns , and we see trends that would otherwise not have been visible .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical mortality diagram ordered by age .
the program that i use here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle section here , people are most active and they &apos;re most affordable over here .
i &apos;m going to give you a few examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further and rearrange the data and see that cycles and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , if we go on and sorrow by age , let &apos;s say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are even the main cause that people should worry about .
and if you look at this research , this is particularly true of men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminded of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here are the cover images of every single &quot; sports illustrated &quot; that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
you can dive into a decade with pivot .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to young children anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . it &apos;s not a big one .
you can jump directly to a particular copy .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m going to click on what all of the spending that i &apos;m talking about in the lance armstrong .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything about biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t look for it , or you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and reduced it to a small summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;ll just show you the top 500 of the most popular wikipediases .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediacatrics that are most likely to cover time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediaset .
that &apos;s just to see when you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at a certain of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamicoessig that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss , and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that could be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump right to a specific section .
this is important because you can only look at web sites in this way , look at all the internet trajectory in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in on a particular time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this point .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory , perhaps , for my search past , here , i &apos;ve looked for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here for bing , or here , live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the site and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the database .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the escape of information overload .
we talk about drowning in information .
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of always going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and by doing that , we can see patterns that would have otherwise been hidden ?
if we can do that , then this kind of data trap , maybe a new source of meaningful information .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier , and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving in information , we can get knowledge out of it .
and if we know , we might even be able to pull wisdom out of it .
so i stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a heard portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i drove to school with the bus , one hour per hour per day .
and my nose always stuck in a book , a science fiction book , which brought my mind into other worlds , and in a narrative way , my deeply sitting in me was satisfied , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i was not in school , i would stretch through the forests , and i would go and collect samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and pond water , and i would take it home and look at it under the microscope .
i was totally enthusiastic , you know .
it was always about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can put 6.5 million different stereo facilities together from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor this over-saturation of computer-generated movies nor all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook , painting around .
creativity somehow had to get out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
certainly , i would never get an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to get diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , a thousand miles away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself discourage .
i annoyed my father until he finally got a dive school in buffalo , new york , found out , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my trade-off in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that are now disputed , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as life as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas , the world of communication .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , bright human imagination .
up to today , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dive .
and my love of the ocean continues with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to unite my inner drive to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was always drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories . that fit together .
of course , the stories i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of flew .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted , as long as it came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took it back to computer-generated animation , cg .
and what we found was the first computer-generated software surface-character ever to see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in any money , in fact , he was just playing his production cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went off .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought , &quot; wow , this has to be involved in the art of film . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy out of liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at the time , called &quot; digital domain . &quot;
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start right with digital production .
and then we did that , and we got a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that we were in the creature- and default design -- which we had actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was the measurement of visual effects and computer-generated effects in all new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made by cg , and the main characters should all be cg , and the world should be cg .
but the bar was really pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we were not yet able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that was undergoing .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic dimensions , a passionate film .
but secretly , i actually wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , to be one of the last people to speak your language , to have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
one consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
that &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good tracker for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but that goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the north atlantic surface , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparations were enormous . we had to build cameras and lights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much this deep sea level , a space mission , resembled .
well , they were also highly engineering , and they were allowed to do extensive planning .
you go into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue if you can &apos;t do it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s as if i was in a science fiction film .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was actually obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , the part that had to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we have almost an infinite choice now of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and the science had never found words for when we saw them .
so that really kind of flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we went to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped up a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have the means to do it , so we developed the technology that you need .
now , here i am , on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i see planks that are quite similar to these breeds here , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i actually only serve it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically inside the titanic ship wreck .
this was the most surreal form of a déjí-vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i got around a corner , i always knew what was going to show up in the light bulb of the vehicle , because i had been walking over the film set for months when we were making the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s plans .
so this was a very , very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and make your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg &apos;s body to explore or do other things , in all kinds of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
so after these expeditions , we really started to appreciate what we saw down there , like these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are kind of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playwright , nasa hair trimmer and crème brème fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight based system , as we do .
and this is how you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees centigrade that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in the nasa expertise council and plan right space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the mission of biomedical protocol , all the way around and around , and then they fly to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of it , it was beyond the fact that i took space scientists into the deep sea .
i took them and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually did science , in fact , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to .
in the course of this voyage of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you think a director has to be able to lead , a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of it ? &quot;
these silly movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . no trace .
everybody thinks i was a &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar , &quot; and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask this question .
you do it for the task , for the challenge of will -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is . you do it for the discovery , and because of the strange connection that comes from a small group of people making a team .
because we did all of this with only 10 to 12 people who worked together for years uninterrupted , and sometimes we were in the back of two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing you have in front of each other is that you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , all the difficulty , all human performance , if you work on lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other one . it &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have gone through something in common and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and deserve respect in the opposite direction of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood there with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that had not existed before .
terribly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a right family for a four-and-a-half year period .
so my way of making films was completely different .
there were people who thought we &apos;d really done a good job of doing these ocean creatures and transporting them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle of doing my job , the actual process that changed .
so what can we do from all this ?
what lessons have we learned ?
i think the first thing is the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the awareness of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is &quot; no . &quot;
to me , young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how i can do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
get some people . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself . take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has this favorite phrase : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploring , failure has to be an alternative , because there is a guarantee of trust .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded has ever been addressed without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something because my full-time job at the foundation is mainly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years , it &apos;s going to rain too much or too little . things are going to change as their fragile environment can &apos;t sustain .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important to you .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , it would be energy to reduce poverty by far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly man dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language with him .
in other aspects of life , which are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they &apos;re adding up the co2 that leads to temperature increase , and that temperature increase has some very negative consequences , effects on weather and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and so whole systems collapse .
now , the exact relationship between a co2 increase and the resulting temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these are going to follow , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t that half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to increase .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 meter tall truck that has to go under a three-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor &apos;s office , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down to zero .
well , we release a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we have to make change that goes down to zero .
it has gone up all the time .
only different economic changes have changed it at all , and we have to go from rapid increase to zero reduction to zero .
this equation has four factors : a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor , and think about how we get this to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it goes to nine billion . it goes to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we could probably reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , tv , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services accessible to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make disputes and use less , but on average , that number will increase every year , and therefore , more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here &apos;s a very basic service . is there light at home so that you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and they read their school assignments under the street .
now , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t rise .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other things , through new methods in building homes , there are a lot of services , whose energy effort is going to reduce some of the services by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground is much smaller for improvements .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to perhaps the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of if you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , if i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to go to a particular date .
and you say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some people come , some people don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , i came up with this .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my contribution to the environment this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risk and b has these benefits and the risks .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they don &apos;t get a lot .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have a unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions that people are looking for , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may make a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up because they &apos;re shy at us because they have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , either burning coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys , put it under pressure , and then store somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent will be very difficult . and getting an agreement on the storage of co2 is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the waretime question .
who &apos;s going to make sure ?
who can guarantee something , which literally many billions of times larger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that may be solvable , and that you should be working on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies create dramatically less than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about a lot of square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power plant .
and also , these vents are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem to be always , and it doesn &apos;t seem to be always blowing the wind .
that &apos;s why , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in time when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big price challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you have to deal with the risk of the energy coming from where else .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are being made : the cars , the computers , the cell phones , the flashlights , for everything , and i have compared to the amount of electronic energy that the world is using , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be better by a factor of 100 than the approaches right now .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to bring these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the use .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible wonder battery .
now , where are we going to go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already engaged there .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , that has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support it .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that may , surprisingly , follow the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we were all talking only one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be canadian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- is someone who doesn &apos;t know and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is making a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development stopped a while ago in this industry , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
it &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you &apos;ve never been able to reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right materialistic approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , that &apos;s much better for free .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head over it , just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see it &apos;s a kind of column , often called the &quot; traveling wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s a huge marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve taken out the part that &apos;s being burned today , so it &apos;s called the uranium that &apos;s used .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you film ocean water cheap and easy , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the destination that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
a lot of people talk about 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture . hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean .
so in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely recreate their electricity generation .
the other note says whether we use zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
that &apos;s going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reductions on the way . the less we emitt , the less the co2 sum is going to be and the temperature is going to be .
but in fact , this note for the things we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even slightly less important as the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &apos;s &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework in which this can be discussed , because we need help from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is halved energy , without co2 , i would take that wish .
it has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term thinking people will get terrible , between the united states and china , between poor and rich and almost all of the lives of those two billion will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice , as this slide should show .
so what do we have to do ?
what are i appealing to ?
we need to use it for more research .
when countries come together in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should talk about this strategy of innovation , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously small money that &apos;s being spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market taxes , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists that we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100s million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , the regularians and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s as promised as it is , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy , as we know it .
to get it right : that means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , that consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : right . today you have to refill the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- buried it without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re as often reinventing ourselves as we want .
a nuclear reactor that offers a solution to the garbage itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we put in our fills , and it &apos;s dramatically reduced the volume of garbage during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in actually doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t set ourselves on a place yet , and there are a lot of interesting rules of openness for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear . &quot; there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something along the way .
this is a variant of one thing that &apos;s been made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability to really make this happen ?
bg : now we need one of these scalable , electricity things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then 20 years to use .
this is kind of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to be involved in .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could make it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds , just as their approaches work , the promotion for their pilots works , to provide it .
and it would be best if it could make multiple , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
so , given the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental demand , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got kids as fast as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , that &apos;s a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in a league of your own .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the earth &apos;s temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and it &apos;s right in front of a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research that &apos;s called geoengineering , which is looking at different techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to go together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope that we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work at all on insurance because it might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save you heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have it available , if things come faster , or this innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change tigers : do you have one or two sentences for you to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that change things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you only have later -- and you get the investment not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that , if you can do it economically , and at the same time eliminate co2 , the skeptics also say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it not emitting co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjdorn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other targets suffer , the poverty reduction , the fighting of malaria , and so on , that it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things that we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
underneath that , other things shouldn &apos;t suffer .
you get too big money , and here you can disagree with people who are reasonable , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you &apos;re trying to fund it , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
anyway , you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if you get the abstrich you get is a very high energy cycle , you can only keep up with the rich .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new flap is now , &quot; why isn &apos;t research going to talk ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and therefore he &apos;s now bringing the research argument .
and that &apos;s a thought that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little that &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four-foot teams have to build the largest free structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about three feet , and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that enables deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share with you some of them .
most people normally start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
you talk about what it &apos;s going to look like , you run around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and put spaghetti out .
they invest a lot of their time in the assembly of ever-growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow and they put it on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da ! &quot; they admire your work .
but what happens , almost every time , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow is that the whole thing is defeating and falling .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy doing other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a series of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst , there are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they make really droughts .
and of course , there are teams that have much more &quot; ta-da &quot; and among the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : why is that ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok .
should i marry later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realize it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what &apos;s different about kindergarten children is that they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair bundly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get instant feedback and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most people is about 50 inches , bwl students , half of them , lawyers are doing a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who &apos;s the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one foot is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-amplifying geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is a little bit about average . but here it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of processing companion .
they lead the process , they understand it .
and that team that controls and will pay attention to the work significantly improves the performance of the team .
and you &apos;ll answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the assignments that i &apos;m giving you and not getting good grade in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination leads to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
i was trying to do something interesting .
i thought , let &apos;s make the use of the poker .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built an eight-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
what do you think happened now ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
that &apos;s how the same bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the slightest time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every single place on the planet -- all the way to the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic attitude , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this kind of simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in this can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of people optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world records .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it demands that we &apos;re all putting our senses on the task , and that we &apos;re using our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , that the wirelessplan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose , because i &apos;ve been asking my friends a lot of the time , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america seeks the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you about it because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re doing : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heel .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , again and again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever made .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we &apos;ve forced them . puff .
in the rich world , disease that millions of us have even threatened before one generation .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphtery , rotating , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method to try things out , see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastation this world thoroughly .
drinking water , copyable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t get out of this chaos , we also disappear .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i accept this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the country that they live on .
i think we can supply this world with energy that it doesn &apos;t at the same time destroy .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wishful thinking .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never used scientific progress as hard as we are , never before .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably in the way we can do today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds and 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been fighting progress in which we &apos;ve been through these things more powerful , more fronts than we are now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to think , even a right to think about progress .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; t.v. &apos; they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to bump resistance towards what &apos;s the most effective thing in health care in the history of mankind .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , only bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were going to move around in a certain way , rather than a random way , to get a handle on nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to shake your experience of your child &apos;s football game very differently than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we &apos;re typing , we &apos;re rich , we &apos;re eating , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles made me worried , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so mess ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it in a nutshell .
we talk ironically about it , with a little bit of a leadership about it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we have the confidence in institutions , in authority , and sometimes lost in science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just name a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. 2000 presidential election .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get the evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it before , and hopefully never again will see it .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the massage , mumps , and vaccine .
very scary .
well , there were some studies done to see if that was true .
well , evidence of studies should be conducted ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference because we believe in anecdotes , we believe in what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bundle of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do that .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not all of them was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody have masses here ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
not very often happens .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
don &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 per hour .
but because this hasn &apos;t happened here , we can deny it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never are the same .
and this is something we have to learn , and it &apos;s very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no source , no parenting paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , are these good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavius vaccine with a couple of other people .
it can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , apart from paul walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public audience , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
you take them away , you reverse the disease , horrible disease , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we now have masses in this country .
and that &apos;s going to get worse , and pretty soon kids are going to die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitary of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i &apos;m a little too shrimp . &quot;
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have a child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos got on an airplane this morning , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles , and right now they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you to jump .
i know you did that because half of americans do that every day .
all these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . more than ever do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
now , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too strong a government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazing cold and soulful to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from it , and where are we going ?
we go to the poor of placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of it -- gingko , cheating , echinacea , cheating , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we &apos;re spending billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s cheating .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what you want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to even decide .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any cancer jacket salt that wants to treat his patients with caffs .
if you go to this path , where belief and magic are replacing evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs , which we know can brake the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study about investing in volunteer aging .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersila , every rose steel , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more accurate , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people expand their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to own seeds .
and you know what my answer to all of this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , the participation took off by two percent .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid is a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we &apos;re going to have right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
they &apos;re offering 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were just offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that &apos;s eating half a billion people .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it doesn &apos;t have nutrients , it doesn &apos;t have any protein , and scientists are putting all this in there .
and then people could eat the food , and they wouldn &apos;t be blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is : why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now there are some of us who , in a way , forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is a choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose , to put it in the morning .
i mean , let &apos;s ask : why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be about time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do it the way we &apos;re going to be guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s happening here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s our not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and of course , tomorrow never comes .
anyway , i want that . i certainly want that .
right now it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;ll move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless , you look at it the way i do , as &quot; a deception that becomes a real thing , if somebody believes in it enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills , in some studies , have shown a measurable effect , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s because the person thinks what happens to her , is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient only believes enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body , which is called the placebo effect .
understand that it doesn &apos;t just mean that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to put back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss large investment offers of their employers .
a deception becomes a real thing because someone perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i &apos;d like to show you a very basic , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has at least been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i myself learned it from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study ; my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my lap .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to multiply their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
in this way , you can see that there &apos;s nothing going on at any time , and as long as i squeeze here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve , or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick to do .
many of you probably know this trick in the room .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing disappears or comes out of my sleeve , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where he was , to a position where he was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it &apos;s processing information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , it &apos;s looking at it as a group .
but that &apos;s really not the point . and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it will be hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take that hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick with your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
because it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you shape a letter on it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and this , even though none of these are pharmaceutical -- these are just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any form .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the crucial thing is ...
... that the doses also play a role .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
it creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that has a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that is obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when it &apos;s supposed to go .
this is an 18-inch long hat needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so this is the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to decide between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
so i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to go through it , and i &apos;m going to put it back on the other side .
if you get bad -- if you fall slightly in favor -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost oblivious .
so i propose to you , if you get bad , you look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know what , i &apos;m going to do the first healing part here in the back .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away if you want to .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little one-by-one .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin , and on the other side , out like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself , just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this child from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they came up with the flow of milk from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is due to the great selection of different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what has happened is this visually presented alternative leads you to regret the decision , and this regret is negative to the satisfaction that you made by your decision , even though it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from the nearby .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my flesh , and i can turn that around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see this on video , will say , &quot; well , it looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , he would -- you know , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is not to regret anything that is disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think , in this frame , and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they gave up after about 40 , and there was a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive falls that sort of make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mainly about these cognitive falls .
second , what economists call opperchannel costs .
that &apos;s true of layered thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists thinking about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these traps is a resonance to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a particular meaning that we could limit it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we have to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a distinction of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , that &apos;s a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a questionnaire and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling the story of the way we evaluate things , depending on what we compare it to .
and then he added in , really quite emotionally , and that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past again , but is basically just the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is looking at -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it hurting when i hit you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor is addressing by asking the question , &quot; how have you felt lately ? &quot;
well , if there are lots of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that they exclude , that makes them less satisfied with the alternatives they chose .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the memorial self , and the two to confuse is part of the misery of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories if we &apos;re going to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let them start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who are in a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful anymore , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had , patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse recollection of the reflection than patient b .
the stories of the reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is far worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than for b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the memory itself .
from the perspective of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patients a by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a couple of minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self is worse off from patient a , and you &apos;ve done that the memory itself from patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is , is outbreaks , significant moments of looking and end .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end of it dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one after the other .
and you ask : what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is about three seconds long , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace behind .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , they kind of get the impression that they should count that what happened during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we would use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that holds the memory itself for us .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the process of time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first one , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the memory of the self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one week &apos;s vacation , because there are no new memories to be added .
they haven &apos;t changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory of self from a living self , time is very little influence on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one who makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , then the one who chooses who has the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose experience . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even if we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of the memorial self as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that the living itself doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we do vacation in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we ease from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors blue and green , because the celestial scene is matched to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn , &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think a lot about it in relation to how often i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably eaten from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetite i have on my ears of memories , but even if you do more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the lost mind to the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you won &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you chose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think about it in terms of memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we have with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two kinds of self throw up two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per capita .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and you &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a fairly complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the luck of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
that &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how satisfied or delighted the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to screw up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being that have long missed the exploration of happiness in this very way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a worldwide survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two kinds of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how satisfied someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy they live and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he &apos;s spending two weeks following the thought that he &apos;s been missing , day after day , having a great parking lot .
what that means is that if you met somebody and you told them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
when i tell you that somebody has put their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with their living selves .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what the happiness of the happiness itself determines .
we know money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two kinds of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs down the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question , how happy are people in california not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask this question , you think that people in california have to be happier if they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who go to california hoping to be happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more options there are to choose , the more attractive features of this choice are considered to be opposing costs .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were phone calls a couple of weeks ago , they mentioned to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is this something you can let us participate in , because you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup survey is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that , under a $ 60,000 income per year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a $ 600,000 income per year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw lines like that .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly gets you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , of the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american quest , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , that the country would take a finance like the serious and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of research in politics .
recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are about to recognize that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life grading , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about it now , and perhaps doing things about it slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that &apos;s going to be part of the national statistics , i think , in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or at least the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
right now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one of the important things that he does is : whenever they choose to do one thing , they don &apos;t choose to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time if you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , according to my research at the institute of the future , that &apos;s exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours per week of play .
this may seem a little bit counterintuitive first , so i &apos;ll repeat it so that if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try and play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture describes pretty much why i think games are so essential to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a peculiar language and a marriage rule called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will do what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings in play , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , deeply immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you also play , you &apos;ll see some nuances here , which are eyes zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . prima . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so super-positive that you didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of doing something like this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is right in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of problem solvers all over the world , when we &apos;re attacking the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of all the vistas of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face , and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yeah ? ok .
that &apos;s me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. why we &apos;re better at play than we are in real life .
that &apos;s a problem a lot of players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good as we are in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successful , even though that &apos;s true .
we &apos;re doing more in games . i mean , well in the context of motivation to do something meaningful , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are going to turn into our best version , at any given time and instantly helpful , trying to solve the problem as long as it takes , try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just reach it all ?
how can we transfer these feelings from the games into the reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a world meeting mission , and it &apos;s right away .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fit perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a job that they can &apos;t solve .
but always on the edge of your skills , so you have to get involved , but there &apos;s no unemployment in world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and twist . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are plenty of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that in real life that simple , that feeling that there &apos;s a fingertip of the staff ready .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only one species , and they bought them , and they missed , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they carried them long enough and often enough washed them , they started to feel ok .
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; high &quot; and &quot; + one strength &quot; or &quot; + one intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
if i leave this stage , i don &apos;t : + one , and + one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to be on the edge of any epic victory at any time that we prefer to spend all our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraftsmen players have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to go upright .
so , i went to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first upright primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing games right now , it just makes sense when you &apos;re keeping your eyes on the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using games all this time , we actually change what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , cardiac beings .
that &apos;s the truth . i believe that .
look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games until the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total total that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the end of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a whole parallel education path where young people are learning what it means to be a good player , like anything else that they &apos;re learning in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , lightweight or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the 10,000 hours of success .
it &apos;s based on the magnificent research in cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject until the 21st year , we &apos;re going to master it .
we &apos;re going to be as good at doing whatever the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what are the players who are masterically good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have sort of unprecedented human potential .
so many people now have in the world that spend at least an hour per day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it .
do you want buttons or shuffles ? stone or acid washes ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on cell phones , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the urge to do something immediately , a barrier , along with the belief that we have a reasonable hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of dense social nets .
do you want jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we people like more after we play with them , even when they defeated us .
the reason for that is because it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal , and we stay with the play .
so playing together allows you to grow bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that we work optimally as human beings when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always willing to work hard when they get the right task .
would you like to cut way down , keen , blah blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he told .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to be part of an awe of an area of planetary error .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put this in the right light , and you probably know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 people , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve assembled more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome , and players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as an individual .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the odd thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischews , six or seven languages are spoken , but it &apos;s that you never hear anyone learn a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a folk scientist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we will witness not less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
you can make stronger social ties in games than you can do in real life . you get more feedback and rewards in games than you do in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best fit jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s completely logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that comes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes made out of sheep . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there was sheep skill .
and these were kind of the first people to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you might know this story , the story about how and why games were invented .
herodotus said games , precise cube games , in the kingdom of lydia , were invented during a famine .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
there was such a famine , supposedly , that the king of lydics decided to be a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with gratifying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next .
same thing , i think , is what we &apos;re doing today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to avoid everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to use a last cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there was food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrussians , who later formed the roman empire , have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine might explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing games for 18 years , and then they had this inflammation and learned so much about playing with each other that they saved the entire civilization .
so we can do that too .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to search for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should think that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we &apos;ve solved the real world problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve real world problems in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question i &apos;ve dedicated my work to the institute in the last few years to the future .
the reason that i felt worse was because of all these possibilities available , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to predict the future .
what we want to do is create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then we want to empower people to implement this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and get people to epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil shortage .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been following them for the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is an amazing adventure you go to .
find out how you would survive . most of our players have kept the habits in the game .
so for the next world meeting , we &apos;ve set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the calculation of a supercomputer that people only have 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global mortality sensitivity system , of course .
when they came to 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up is almost like a jerry bruckheimer film .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-beach ring , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google superstruct .
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , and it &apos;s a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award of the world bank , &quot; social transformation , &quot; graduation in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities all over sub-saharan africa and inviting them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on it . we have &quot; high &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge interconnectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in development areas that benefit from having their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to build tight social networks , urgency optimism , and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing significant games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
if i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure of two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let &apos;s start the world changing games !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always griffed my synonymous dictionary in writing , but i &apos;ve been ready to work on texting , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life , which means &quot; disabled . &quot;
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; crushed , helpless , useless , destroyed , mutilated , wounded , wounded , aimed , lahm , segregated , discredited , balanced , impotent , caputed , paralyzed , gehandicapt senil , aged , pulled out of traffic , relieved , arranged , destroyed , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh at first , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; targeted , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting myself after this overfall flood and the emotional shock associated with it .
of course , this was a very fancy , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy in the early 1980s when i was just starting elementary school , and i started to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives are inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how well these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take that entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be in any way positive , but today i &apos;m going to celebrate for the odds and adventure that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online edition of 2009 , and i expected me to find a more responsive contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this post .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms are &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of an escape has a huge force , because what you &apos;re talking about is also manifest .
and that leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just a human being could be mindless as a child , enough to constrain them and overcome ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open up doors ?
a man who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p. .
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just designed for the work with kids .
i thought the time i spent in this hospital was just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to have individual practices that seem to repeat infinitely often with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flew them . i hated them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. and so i tried to stop these practices , naturally unsuccessful .
and one day he watched me do one of my exercises -- these exercises were just tiring and ruthless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear up one of these tapes one day .
no one in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you wouldn &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you can , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so that i do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the prospect that the richest five year-old girl in the hospital was going to be in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , and this became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and so i could think of myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethal human beings .
this is just one example of how adults can incentivize the imagination of a child .
but as the quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t let us imagine a space to imagine what we would all wish : to allow every single person to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is about the social change that has been caused in many cases by a technological change .
and of course , from the medical point of view , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery , for visually impaired , knee joints of titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and develop beyond the limits that have given them their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , to allow people to self-assemble in their own way , and to orient themselves to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so perhaps this technological change is clear , because the fact that there &apos;s always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful to society , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to talk about how i deal with widrities , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never fed for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering people &apos;s questions , and i think i understand why .
this is a set of widrities that live on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being shaped by the experience that i had , as if my life had been so successful , because i could eradicate the possible fall of a life with prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i say that &apos;s good .
widrities are not an obstacle that we need to enable to deal with our lives better .
widrities just belong to our lives .
and i tend to see wishes as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s barely seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make any impact whatsoever , the hard of the fight of a human being .
there are challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is different , but the question is not whether we can deal with wishes or not , but how we can deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from the fate , but to prepare them for getting good with it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it was all better than anything was worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to experience a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : one , the medical fact of being amputated and the other , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly saying it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people we care about and share the cold , hard truth with them about their medical forecast or even a forecast for quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t actually lay the basis of someone being disabled .
maybe the concept that we have right now is just looking at what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for each and every one of them , a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive all of its forces and possibilities , we create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might need to lead , another disease .
we degrade a human being who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the fields of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventive mind .
we shouldn &apos;t be devaluing or denying these challenging times , we shouldn &apos;t be trying to avoid them , nor should we be returning them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the vistas .
i &apos;m more likely to realize that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome widrities , but that we are open to embrace them , to grab them on the swamp , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is that things are as good as you would expect them .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of widrities as something natural , coherent and useful , and so we don &apos;t feel so harassed by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed out to something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its kind , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can adapt to change best .
conflicts emerge from creativity .
not just from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the human ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to transform by conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are people &apos;s greatest skills .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really being tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of widrities , the sense of iteration , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can make widrities a new meaning that goes beyond tough times .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant because their expectations , my expectations , are homegrown .
maybe we can see widrities as a change .
we have a change in the world that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor gray person , if there was really you ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could expose this paradigm of normality to another set of possibilities or strength , to actually put it a little bit more dangerous , to exchange it , so we can unleash the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that already neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , have contributed older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that may have happened because the life experience was valuable for these people &apos;s survival .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up in a food market in the red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was in front of a shadow of tomatoes .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy saying behind me , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember them . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it made a click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really , really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , very typical , i was late on my birthday for two weeks .
the doctor for prenatal diagnostics of my mother was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without legs , and my feet had been turned up after them , and i had just a few toes on this one , and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bridge , and this stranger had to overtake the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then , they just punished me lying . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i was with the pfadders in the parade to hallocure , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahmann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. kean continued to say , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids to themselves , then kids can do a lot of things . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and as someone else is dealing with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 if i had swapped my prostheses against legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who have constrained me or wanted to have an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommending -- if you can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open up doors to themselves .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; root in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means creating something that is in one thing to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted in 1958 .
but defeat is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into total schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided by the notes .
and the a students are tested tirelessly , get the better teachers and so on .
and then they &apos;ve given , over a three-month period of time to students with a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note &quot; very good , &quot; and they &apos;ve been told to be a cash , that they &apos;re very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote down .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that the other way around the students were told that they were only sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- aside from the students who had thrown the school .
and what was crucial about this study was that the teachers were not incorporated .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unsatisfied , and you ask yourself why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they &apos;re the one-to-one students , and they &apos;re the students with the grade enough , and they &apos;ve taught them something , and they &apos;ve treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no longer hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childish curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we manage to support the human mind , to continue to hope , to find ourselves and other people around them beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really empower our forces .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new form of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words , &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the boats , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he just says , come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
when hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who &apos;s responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who &apos;s been longing for more creativity .
which would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see you .
a couple . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is you .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor &apos;s theme .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology makes no sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing in the other course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it for others , or is it for us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials at the tips of those branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment , fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there may be 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for errors .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of life &apos;s tree , but in fact , most of the fundamental mechanisms are our cells pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and use the mechanisms of a common bacteria to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically indifferent from what comes out of the pancreas .
and what we &apos;re talking about is bacteria , are you aware that every one of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than cells in the rest of our body ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , think , if antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitalized environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish for without effort on their own .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestion nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in the form of a species ?
or are we meant to be something else -- something that may even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single bar ; and human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you enjoyed d .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in single organisms , each cell divides , and all of the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time , when multi-cellular organisms came out , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that passes the genome on , the rest of the body becomes decent .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of death of our bodies occurs in the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the 1990s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel room door .
i believe a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if you have to explain these experiences , you think it &apos;s your fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;ll take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradicting , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore the health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about giving the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we are generally better , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i have evolved like boxes to send the genetic questioning into the next level of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to reach immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution does not necessarily mean prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that adapt best to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there , which are thermophil , and in doing so , they survive the hot vapor otherwise , if fish were there , it would be vacuum cooked fish , but they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next stage , i would say there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to move forward .
in 1957 , five missionaries tried to connect and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve achieved a kind of balance .
and the reason we would be because of medicine , first of all , is to get a lot of genes that would have been selected otherwise and would have been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configurated our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to make it adapt to us exactly as well as to adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here is that the wheels of evolution are slow to grind , but they &apos;re insignificant .
and as far as isolation goes , if we colonize as a species distant planet , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could naturally produce evolution .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a seductive , fascinating and scary possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided to be individual , in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we do this ?
first of all , let &apos;s look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , are making decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it &apos;s not only possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to pretend genetic adaptations that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s or eliminate cancer risk or stroke ?
would you not want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow , which is better than choice .
next year , when it was finished in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in the drone for four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long until the reality is that there &apos;s going to be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and willem stemmer , two scientists who independently evolved techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblast , and by manipulation of just four genes , the cell induced to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin produces in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself , but also serve for immunity to other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in gang with vaccine against influenza , which has been built into the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the egg cells or the newly fertilized egg to give your kids a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophilia , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can allow the changes to prevent disease , could also give us super-attribute , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why not have the capability of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why not live longer ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attribute that we want , we will be transformed from alt-style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed that point long on the selection to improve our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes probably 100,000 years , and we can compress it for a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society which is better , which is more successful , which is more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society that &apos;s more diligent and uniform , or robuster and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions we &apos;re going to have to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom , and the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good and the bad , and the old days you might think , these decisions will be about us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman ability , or another wheelchair driver that helps to stand up and go .
now , as a policy question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a policy question , the issue of thinking about it is that what makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is wealth of material .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re not something other than something that you put in the morning that gives you extra strength and will continue to increase your speed and that will help you keep your balance , for example .
that &apos;s actually the real fusion of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier who &apos;s carrying about 100 pounds on his back , on average , and it &apos;s the question that you should wear more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal cord injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
there &apos;s a lot of places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about a lot of you whose problem is not the big choice .
his flexible design allows you to get deep , to crawl , to do highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then increase my strength and persistence .
we are so far to introduce this device to our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton that year .
so it &apos;s true .
now let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m very passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are sitting in the wheelchair all over the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injuries that have been hit in the flowering season of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , the number multiplies .
your problem is you have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so it &apos;s been , by the way , since 500 years , as i say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that she has no longer been able to run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephants .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached to her back here .
here are also battery-packs , the engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints that they move forward in this rather smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and in the best form , when a monstrous pure tree was paralyzing me as a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my pelvis .
not long after that , a doctor steps into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you will never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steals every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn , to ski again , to climb and even drive with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and so angry is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman for a volunteer delay the fire .
now , in our city , in which volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be on the brush quite early on to be able to mix with .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the front , so i had quite good opportunities to be able to get in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the main man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the bedrock and barefoot under a screen out in the floating rain as her house was in the flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go into the house and save the dog of the owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they took shiny pictures of themselves out of the air , which we would consider friendly gestures , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was any lawyer or lawyer who could now tell people for the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living creature , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was the next one .
the main man was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up on the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went -- up the stairs , up the hallway , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who were already quite ready to delete , at that point , into the bedroom to get some shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i put my prey back down , where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we wore our estimates out to the owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a couple of weeks later , the fireguards got a letter from the owner of the house , where they were considering themselves for the more brave use of saving their house .
one of the most valued kindness : someone had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness on a big scale , but i also see the charity and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so if i look around this room and see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer this memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in somebody else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
use a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us worse .
not every day will give us a chance to save a human life , but every day we have the opportunity to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progress of humanity .
it &apos;s a place where the women lead the ceptor , say sex , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationship .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
if something that enables people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would they improve people &apos;s lives , but our dignity would be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives together with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos shows us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by great , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because this leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese forest , and it &apos;s hard to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the location of a violent argument that has been raging for decades and demanding almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction is also endangering the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree causes you to not even fill a stadium with the bonobos that are left -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laughter that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , also bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like that , conflict and social angels .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like humans -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us , and it &apos;s a game that is essential to the connection of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody do better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is going to place us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tide that holds us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild right now .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a highly developed person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are distributed , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea that you bring new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while it &apos;s also making tremendous fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can assume many forms , some of which are a little bit more quiet , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she &apos;s playing peaceful with water .
i think just as they do , we sometimes play alone , and we select boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we form are the real nutrition of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos gave us into our past and present .
but they also have a secret to our future , a future where we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people equally , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate mates , let &apos;s hug this gift of evolution and play together , as we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two couples , in the middle of 1979 , the same day , at exactly the same moment , each baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two couples , each baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the generation , because , if you think about the whole time making , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in a case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm carries an x chromosome hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
both are survivable , both light light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- meaning human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts , how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , challenging social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfism -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and in general , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads we all have , fetal stadium , growing up to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone in the fetal stadium gives off testosterone .
they picked up these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , and they concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and that &apos;s called androgen-receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body is evolving as a typical female trajectory .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but most of the time , it takes you to reach puberty and your breasts grow and develop , but you don &apos;t get your period until someone gets there to be a little different .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of popping eggs and uterus , they actually have testicles , and they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the goldfish glass , so that anything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think being a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk about androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgen-receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual is not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , you can be distributed across the entire range .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , raised as a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbladder .
he &apos;s got xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were exposed to male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he had internally menstrued that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variant of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , where ovarian tissue is surrounded by hodenial tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarfism or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- from surgeons often being adjusted to the norm , it &apos;s not because it &apos;s for their physical health advantage .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical procedures is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic leap is coming in with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold jar .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity ; to be a black person , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had experienced most of the excitement recently , the south african runner , caster semenya , last year , whose gender was challenged with the world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me on the question , &quot; what are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there was no such test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or male and intersexual and intersexual , and that &apos;s what we are , in fact , that this line is natural .
this is almost too limited to full security -- possibly to the fish , definitely to us .
so we have a situation where , the further our science progresses , we have to admit to ourselves so much that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity theories , are much more furious than we thought we were .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true in terms of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we &apos;re getting into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re going to push to the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re going to distinguish from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward and further , we get into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve probably had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes a human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i guess , catastrophe .
we have very difficult arguments today -- perhaps not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors had never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve just kept a feather under their nose , and when they moved , they haven &apos;t buried them yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today we are in a situation where we take people out of vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we get trapped in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we did before .
now you might think that the whole thing would collapse from categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to realize that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it strikes me in terms of thinking about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racist , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that i found myself looking at the paintweight musical 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they returned was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another one that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years for us was measurable .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of the monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the masters of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of the birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the notion that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers pointed this idea back and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they niveled the play field and decided that anatomically , the common ground counted , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the history of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they showed things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birthright .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and with that , they have really wonderfully prepared the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think that much about it , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who used the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and ovarian hives is not significant enough , that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to property , etc . &quot;
and women argued this successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sotravel ner truth , who spach it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the civil rights movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , based on anatomic commonalities before anatomical differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing with the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start looking at all the similarities , we have to start asking , why do we maintain certain divisions ?
now , well-remembered , i want to keep certain divisions , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which one it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been launched at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , just the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani did not just kill outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , it &apos;s got all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have a consensual sex , the right to choose to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other odds about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be pulled in , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t see the same right in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can now marry a woman in only a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do because our science makes such progress in the anatomy that we &apos;re going to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy might fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time it feels like science is self-sustaining .
we &apos;ve tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we &apos;re going to pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught up in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas decided at a point that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen-receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream talk , &quot; a kind of a solution .
he says we should judge people not for &quot; their skin color , but for the property of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we have digitized almost 20 years , and as we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights to people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves more of socialities than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably also know some bright labradordogs that are more capable of making more intelligent and mature decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our quest for democracy , we &apos;ve done our job really well , and i think we &apos;d do our job in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like in iran , for example , where a man who &apos;s drawn to other men is punished sexually , who is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to take a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of conditions don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was talking to him , and i asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be very bad treated , and so he had to do it .
i told him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl rather than having an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states provides incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are , without having to change around the state .
that &apos;s why i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to note that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or may have looked like if we had the mothers involved more .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , which is that i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people use a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we tried to do this with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in gender research .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relations and the caring for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that &apos;s to say that there might be something , on average , which makes female brains different from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relationships , and more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get rid of about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that &apos;s here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely considerable to figure out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would cheat more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , if we do democracy beyond anatomy -- to think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and to think more about relationships .
so that , as a people , if we &apos;re trying to make a more perfect connection , we &apos;re thinking about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to be able to find a different colorful , crazy outfit , and recently to photograph and blog .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from the second hand on fin markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all of these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my shrimp on the environment , and also to my wallets .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping my own personal purchase .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
will i like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve packed here at ted this exciting week .
i mean , what does someone bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants with me , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i have bet that i would find everything else i might want to wear if i came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m going to give you some of the lessons that i , believe it or not , have learned from these adventures to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i carried all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you will not only understand it , you will appreciate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
does it allow the chemistry to create these really big molecules , which has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing dress , or i remember her seven-year-olds .
and i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good at something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me that day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;ll just summarize that for you .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody in this audience .
they were drilling each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to touch these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be a different crazy , colorful , radiating outfit that &apos;s waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in my heart and search for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , all together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point of view .
that &apos;s what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy is growing up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because of the formula 1 in the past decades , something very interesting happened .
it was a while ago that if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a couple of thousands of sensors , giving information out of the car , giving that information on to the system , and then process it , and then use it to send back decisions and change things in real time as information is being collected .
our steps in digitization of life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sensual part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control system is starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become the free computer .
and as a computer in the free , they begin to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- they cause up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it &apos;s still increased , and our final point would now be put on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceive and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli organized at moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; talk to me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , all of our environment , are starting to speak back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom is out there becoming a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means he took the hammer at the end and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the very first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with the perceivation .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it came out four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s been collected from the operator anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was as italy versus france , and then at the end of zidane , the head pot .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just in watching the activity that &apos;s happening in the network .
here &apos;s the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , making calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people do a short call , go to the toilet .
second half time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head push .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
now , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the image of the space about massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
just quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
now , we know everything about where our things come from today .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the garbage , and we started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little bits together and correct the mistakes .
but that &apos;s what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day that the cup we throw away is not just disappearing that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day remains there .
and if we showed that to people , then we can drive a behavior change .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about perceiving and the many other wonderful things you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis on our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they make something like a water curtain with the water points of water .
if these imagery falls down , you can write on it , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to make it jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and leave it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened through penetration .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , those days when you drive down the roof , you get images of people who were there saying , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me , when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
well , let me tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was an even greater joke .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let it go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little bits , made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use the things that we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the data points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m showing you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little image of change -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacteria , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or irregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , is not the position of the imagery .
they can play with different species .
imagine if the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes in different resolution solutions .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and that you can move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller going down to form an equal v like before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so we &apos;ve seen it before .
imagine that every single person is being controlled by people .
it could have a impulse to every single point that comes from people , from the movements of people or so on .
i want to show you something very first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left , you see the dots , the different prisoners , the different impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion recording .
so that you can empathize the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with color movement and gravity .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said that they were doing this model exactly .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re going to bring back people to do something and change the environment -- almost what we call the cloud movement , how we move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that everybody can give a little donation for a picture .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened over the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and makes it accessible through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we then move from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually engage people in doing things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of imagery in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , as our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with images .
they can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital leuchurm at night -- but most important , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very important about the relationship .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature and that everything is connected to each other .
the first time i was in antarctica about 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i took awe .
my heart was racing , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me raced almost 60 meters from the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on a different snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and clarify to the bitter end , while others stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
when you look at a iceberg , you think they &apos;re easily isolated , separated and alone , as we humans often see each other .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought we would build it in cassette tape from the size of the virus , which we could variate the size of the cassette tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far away .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe his temporary atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral rich drinking water that feeds many lifeforms .
i &apos;m going to take pictures of these icebergs as if i &apos;m going to make portraits of my ancestors , in the awareness that they exist in these individual moments of this way , and never will exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the icebergs that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , that digital information really has to be flawed .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat moved to the other side , the man stands there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you another side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was at a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; paps , my legs criticize . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the als .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it with a little bit , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in resurrecting , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you listen to the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not accessible to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving &quot; ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers go along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to make pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units so they fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put a check , and instead i put a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to resolve it .
i committed to the place and to his brother and father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way that he can do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that someone who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw with a laser pointer on it that only registers the negative area .
so they pull around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are being shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the genital parts , and then the inoculation words come , and then the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home , and i ate with my wife for dinner , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control things , then we should find a way that speed can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be brilliant . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first of all , we &apos;ve got insurance on the doors , and actually , for tempt , we &apos;ve got a device that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
also , we &apos;ve taken seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all over the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we would come back and all the images on the walls would be weighed for free .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach mall in venice , my kids were involved , my dog was also involved , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks in .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beaches , a little copper wire , and a few things from the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can squeeze .
no hospital either .
each paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much . that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rubber before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nights , tony , for the first time , drew again after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve taken his bed off so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a feeling that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt like we were part of the spray scene .
at the end , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone grabbed down and pulled my head up so i could breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight cry .
that keeps us going , and it keeps us going .
and we need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same with a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all sorts of recognition .
we &apos;ve won a few prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us , and then , in december , time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this -- and this includes the whole circle -- is that it &apos;s going to be an exhibition in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty decreased .
so basically what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , it makes it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with augenerating technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that &apos;s the question that each of you should ask yourself , and every single day , where you get something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
we just signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come as a scientist .
i can be a farmer , or i can be a leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at the high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten in the virgin toilet every week , green and blue , until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the teacher &apos;s room .
and they did it secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a phone call from this teacher in the middle of the night , woman , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man i know you &apos;ve found him in between .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and that i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we brought them , and we took care of them , and we put them on their family eight because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about had turned out to be .
the epiphany is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that had five to seven thousand letters in them , put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this is so often mentioned here today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , he needs love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we &apos;ve got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we made these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process of what they &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not the route usually .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most deceptive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; make it ready for the impact . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the border staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a terror , the life was over .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that , in a moment , everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought of all the people that i wanted to reach a hand and didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a saying , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is so far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to change anything ever in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was , when we missed george washington bridge , it was pretty much about hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my own mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything that i was packing .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regreted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to get negative energy out of my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock starts , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; to count down .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceeds all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of being human , of dying is not frightening .
it &apos;s almost like we &apos;re preparing for our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i only wish for one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination , which uses biology to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots with each other , that life is just about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you would push up because you think you were there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is three million rags of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents that you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty straightforward .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentives in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can compromise the systems that control the numbers and valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can do it , if we can get an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you see in the upper field that his chromosome is just falling apart .
so we start with a windows-dropper .
the use data is transferred into the gray box , damaged the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- performed .
this is a child game , right ?
i want to tell you how we figured that out .
when we started our research on stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he made up of countless cero-day- &apos; wax use .
and it seemed to have something with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and looked at this construct .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all came together again as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after we experimented with different kinds of cheese , it occurred to me that this is a targeted attack .
completely targeted a particular goal .
the dropper strikes actively on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that tries to infect it on this goal .
and if not , stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , that really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a u.s. power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should better figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s structured into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a larger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the use data is a science for yourself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-functioning calls , because we know what they do .
their hunters could smell the urine from 40 steps away , and determine what kind of animal that belonged to .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely in iran , because that &apos;s where most infections have been reported .
well , in this area , there aren &apos;t several thousand targets .
it basically runs out on the bureau of nuclear power plant and on the uranium incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called them up , and i tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise with what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist in space and move , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
and what we also found is that the goal of the attack was to actually make it happen slowly and incurately -- obviously trying to make warehouse engineers desperate so that they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it very quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is really sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that really summed up .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to recollect .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just nateness .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we &apos;ve made using these processes -- in fact , we &apos;ve just used hefu mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we &apos;ve adapted them . yeast then puts them together automatically .
here &apos;s something really cool that we discovered -- really blown me out of socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top you see the centrifuges .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming values of sensors -- so for example , of printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still running in the attack , with the wrong data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like hollywood movies , where , during the pursuit of the tracking , the monitoring camera is being fed with the video .
that &apos;s cool , right ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just that the machine operators are overlisting in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overload a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope . it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , if the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up deployment valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so , for example , it would work just as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the usb data on a usb stick , as we saw in stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is footage over six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we need to set the consequences , and we need to start preparing better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind this is cyber superpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time kind of dangerous .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing most of my career to the appalling of terrible situations , and it &apos;s all about trying to study social belonging in a way that they &apos;re enthralling and interesting , and hopefully , in a way , understanding what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule that &apos;s ever been created by humans .
some of you may have heard that a couple of weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to stand the name rights on my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- buy the name rights on the talk that you just see , who didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues about what the subject would be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could eventually fly you around the ears after content , especially if i put your company in charge of your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could bother me to do anything as difficult and as dangerous as going into a room with these guys .
you know , i had the idea of a film .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the great movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from above to bottom is completely suspended with brands from the beginning to the end -- the cover sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my harvard professor asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safer .
if we were to print it with a writing size of 10 and without distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the great movie ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , apart from showing that brands are a part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of statements .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how contagious people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but do you know how that &apos;s going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer is likely to be &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do about the film or a difficult thing to do about me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands are .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as simple if you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take out the nucleus and you put another in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to do with your movie . &quot;
and just so , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
none of them wanted to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole idea of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , let as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium that the masses bring this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently , we &apos;ve shown that you can take a full transplant of a chromosome from one cell to another , and you can activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal error , and that was the following .
actually , no , that was not the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , if you type transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images , this is what appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to explore and look through , instantly understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species , and in general , these two are as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to pick this chromosome , and we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes so far that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange road .
and she &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
it &apos;s very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but since only one company , one agency , was willing to help us -- and it &apos;s because i know john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle-man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the great movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to get the process a little further .
every time i go on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we &apos;re offering one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion , &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for men and women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short term .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an extraordinary socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing things like this -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superconductive technology .
technology is not the way to describe something that someone &apos;s doing under the axles .
we talk about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of something , each time thousands of characteristics added to a species in just a second .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing system ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that will have changed at some point in time , have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothing .
80s revival meets scateral , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand of gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff .
but usually i have an accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and a stuff like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand i am is , i would say , flat fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
part of hippie , part of yogi , partly brooklyn girls -- i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m the schmuseum guy .
i sell schmuseum all over the country , worldwide .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted writers .
can you do that ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have any ; the chromosomes that we put in .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and trusting fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could go into my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nest maintenance , feather , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures with them , right ?
that &apos;s me . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how it &apos;s connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who form my worldview .
it was exposed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i want to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like odd things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it stained blue because of the genes that we had added .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of it .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that your brand personality was separating two , but it has other sides -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight / playful brand .
they &apos;re doing very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with it .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than both .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things that they &apos;re not sure of , they &apos;re going to be afraid , these elements , and they &apos;re going to be welcome , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a dexterous chess .
what other brands act like this ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there &apos;s playful brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful brand , eight is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eight , played brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked them to describe their brand identity , their brand personality , what would it be like ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are they more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little more quiet , reservative , more conservative ?
up-attribute are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , time-consuming , adventurous , outlanded and lovely like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and monument like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , considering and the way the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
over the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies that said , &quot; no , &quot; because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they didn &apos;t have control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to get rid of this control that was going to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually have told -- stories that a commercial would never be supported .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that today you use mris to get the pleasure centers of the brain , both to make advertising and to make movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no excitement , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are heading in poor schools all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i had the greatest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands have done .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that the agencies might not really have their interest in the mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate directly with the artist .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think , that challenges our worldview .
and what was it for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film was on the sundance film festival premiere , we can look at it .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
it &apos;s actually just a two-and-a-half weeks period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he &apos;s not yet come out of other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of the cambrian explosion , where there may be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has acquired a very big moment .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their clients , recommended the fingers of it .
one of the things that i really believe in is that if you take your opportunity , you take risks that are in these risks .
i think if you stop people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risk , you &apos;re going to prepare the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that we have to encourage people to take risks when they move forward .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities that might scare them .
finally , when we move forward , we should be welcome to fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
each of them is a big spoon , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that &apos;s what they said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; they welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc , who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights of ebay .
big data is transformed into big opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , is this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i have a check in my pocket , put on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a $ 7100 check to fund my ted performance next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i was doing something else with google , and i was talking to do something with museums and art , and my boss , which is also today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance .
there are a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal vision is very easy to explain with this slide and access to it .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have access to many museums and those works of art .
so when i went and visited these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
in fact , i come to one of my favorites , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you &apos;re amused .
you want to orient yourself in the museum ?
open up the map , and jump with a click .
in there they are , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just go on . a lot of fun .
put them on the ground .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite pictures , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plus sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
this is now one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click this away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapixel technology .
this image , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want deep into it .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that there was something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i started to realize that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , i spoke to some of the familiar ones at met , and actually found out that this is a game called squail , where a gans is beaten on the bottom tuesday with a stick .
it was quite popular , apparently .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to really get close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge for nine .
but the best thing is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the pink strikes ?
and what only if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom into one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen this before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , if you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these pictures , you can make your own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is &quot; the sent , &quot; in the national genius .
you can comment everything with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things here are not from google .
they don &apos;t even come from museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was a humility experience for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to deal with this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked the other day is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitutes of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this person would be completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you put your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think that for most people in the audience , their brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good share of logic to put the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good fraction of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing is at the same time in two different places , but they weren &apos;t born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a ground threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just let you go , and they stay in a place .
and that &apos;s a great conceptual model in the world , as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with the ground swells , but they &apos;re playing with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you fly right through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all of these things are made of particles , and all of these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t all be followed by the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re starting to bump into the limits of biological reality and that of our imagination .
so i would clearly feel better about the whole thing , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so , a couple of years ago , i set out to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;ll expand it a little bit . we &apos;re looking right into the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesia methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went a clean space with new silicon slices , and i racked on all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool of shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up and i listen to all of these things because i don &apos;t want to offend them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that unmoving objects feel the same way .
the co-drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s sweeping over them and the heat of the space .
we now have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaved quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the travelers .
and then we did .
we turned the light off , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked all the air out , and we cooled it up to almost now , just in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it always wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it was really strange .
instead of just being there , it was vibrating , the way it was vibrating was something like this -- like an expanding and cohesive bubble balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we could make it vibrate at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m telling you right now is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate for an object at the same time and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan or new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
only at precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom is at the same time in two different places , which at the same time means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
and that was worth me in the clean space for all this year , because , check this out , the mass-stable difference between a single atom and that piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in a number of places at the same time , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just once selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production , and so on .
how would your conscious mind be that your body is delocated in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made in a small space together .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it turns out that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a shot of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you &apos;re actually sitting with and designing new species on the computer .
it should be our goal , that if families think about where they want to live and work , they will be given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all competing for new residents .
right now , we &apos;re far away from this goal .
there are billions of people in developing countries who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could use the world very easily , perhaps even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , if you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
just swap the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments did this already ; the other half didn &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you &apos;re going to rely on in these apartments and their surroundings to avoid complaining and distracting degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get into all these extensions .
but you could go to a completely new place , build a whole new block of housing , provided the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i &apos;ve proposed that governments are creating new areas that are providing enough space for a city and giving them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that , about the same time , ja4 and octavio have thought about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , ja4 said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unprecedented area of our country -- what if we just gave them a message -- a part of the american embassy -- a part of the canadian bottleneck -- and if people want to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything that they normally have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a major comprehension crisis .
in the next plantation of elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program both promised new and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his head .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , by testing and testing consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we &apos;re paying a lot of attention to new technologies , but progress needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend of guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him ja4 , again .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the head of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december in the auditorium of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and making art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you saw corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a fairly abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , we might be able to look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk was represented in a very simple form that a charter city is a place where the beginning of uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that govern there and gives people the opportunity to decide either to live or not live under these rules .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another talk full of facts , which included a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very big city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a area of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that will come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the faces of the audience were very serious and careful .
the head of congress came up on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new opportunities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would be dependent on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partner countries that they would be supporting to set up the laws for this charter , and in the implementation that everybody can trust that the charter is actually being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the implementation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city in the same way could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been in fear and mistrust for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or the limitation of their availability is when we see co2 as an output material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it captures a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted for congress to change the constitution to have a constitutional regime that &apos;s reliable for specific development areas .
in a country which has just been a huge crisis , congress has been elected to change this constitution with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , for the second time , it was approved with 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between february 21 and february 24 , a delegation of about 30 famine traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in going into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think that we &apos;re going to be the first with fuels of the fourth generation , and that in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years , after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban construction is singapore .
it &apos;s already been built two cities in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already considering this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also being worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
and also urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring funding in .
one thing , as you already know , has been explained , there are a lot of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say that they want to live permanently in a different place .
a million people leave latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , it &apos;s sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents who have not seen , in some cases , a decade ago .
so what is it for an idea to think about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building dutzending of these cities , or hundreds of people all over the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that compete with new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that , according to a typical american , is 70 .
also , they did a recent study with ceos , where they watched ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo has been dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that relate to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is busy doing 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category against the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re in dealing with the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , because i &apos;m blind , just raise your hand if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the decision-overlapping problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk water .
i loved going to this business , but at some point i was wondering , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including the ones that were locked in boxes that came from thousands of years of olive trees .
so one day , i decided to visit the filial bucket , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer all of these possibilities to people ? &quot;
and he pointed to the buses of tourists who came every day and usually had their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marvelous gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as an energy source .
we &apos;ve set up a little bit of costing , right at the entrance of the business .
we &apos;ve set six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : one , what if more people were going to stand and try marmelade ?
more people are left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people bought a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stood when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who stood when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you do the math , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than if they had 24 to choose .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the overlap problem of decision-making also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose not to decide , even if it comes to our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could be easily put into production stores , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so the theme of the day : financial savings .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsers that were possible for a retirement savings plan , the 401 plan , influenced the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that people were offering anything between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the less participating was .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans , the two fonds , had a partial rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , if there are more options to choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend , rather than the more opportunities that they had available , the more they avoided it , the more they chose it and fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had available , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that people would recommend if our future financial well-being is important .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in people who are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re putting it on , even when it comes to their own best interests .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to choose for things that they make themselves less satisfied , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that we might enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually pull the comparison and the boundaries and actually choose something out of the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different kinds of research -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today , that less is more .
you know , we really have -- moderate targets like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? become a source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to confine yourself , and the unimportant equal possibilities get rid of , well , then there &apos;s an increase in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of her 10 worst selling cataracts , they found that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both the increase in the sales and the reduction in the cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart now offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today , is aldi , and they &apos;re just offering them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how best you mandate the choice , was something that david laibson has been very much involved in , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard employee is now automatically at a life-time fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working now to use the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fonds , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to confine it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the question is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t tell them apart , they can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-included vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i want to read you that one .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap when you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it with flu this year , we &apos;re always a year in the back , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everyone who &apos;s willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
good .
in fact , you look at it objectively , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that you found it more real in the second time .
because the images made it real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , is concretization .
i think it can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in the front of it .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , have to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be felt vividly and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average if they use an e.u. card or a credit card than they do on barrel ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel real money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with people at ing -- employees who worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as it used to be , except we &apos;ve added a little bit of it .
the smallness that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or an increase by four percent in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can do better with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryonites .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine course .
it turns out that in the throwaway , it &apos;s supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , it varies the number between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 64 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and i split them into 10 categories or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , then you think i gave you more choice and a better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 if i gave you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different dirt facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called swing .
if you think the left display is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there &apos;s a couple .
if you think that &apos;s jazz on the left , and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is just that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a couple more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the selector something , not the one who provides the choice .
and this is a problem that you often see when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you really want to inform ?
my fourth technique : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just have to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
at the last ted conference , i gave a introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to configure your car completely itself .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now , these decisions are different in the number of choices that they offer in each choice .
car color , the outside of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i do now is i change the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice all the time in the decision , that means you &apos;re being overwhelmed , the healthiest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough over and over again , choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little bit of choice to the many , then stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve changed the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses not to tell me about my preferences at the interior state , it still prepare me to choose .
so it &apos;s that far . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also gets me excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be interested in this .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that are mimicking the problem of decision-making -- limited -- get rid of the excess alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can do better with more categories , less possibilities ; we can prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is meant to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re picky in choosing .
and the more we are able to choose , the more we &apos;re going to be able to make the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-managers at youtube . i &apos;m looking at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video becomes viral , and then we want to talk about why it &apos;s important .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that there was no religious faith in sub-saharan africa , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very deep religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and that &apos;s up to 600 million times within a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrity , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so hard .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to be incredibly famous in some of the culture of our world .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet to the next saturday .
but youtube is uploaded more than 48 hours of video per minute .
and again , only a tiny percentage will ever be viral , and it will be looked at thousands of times , and at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , let &apos;s do that .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhhhhhh , wowww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he shot in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because you do that when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos;s &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of this mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know , these other tips are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 gave it up , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from mystery science theater was a first person to make a joke on twitter about it .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared it with a big audience , and accelerated the process .
then this community formed by people who shared this big insider joke , and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
this is me working on . he calls himself atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was seen almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
it &apos;s important , the creativity that &apos;s dominated in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today we &apos;re not just enjoying something , we &apos;re doing it .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts could you have written that &apos;s in ?
in a world in which every minute , video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can come out like the videos i mentioned .
i admit i was not particularly interested when a friend told me to look at this great video about a guy protesting against bike in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t drive on the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you go on the bike lane .
since that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats &apos; funny idea and his argument looked at five million times .
this approach is true for anything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
and all of this leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative community , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that has access to everyone , and where the audience has popularity .
as i said , one of the greatest stars right now -- justin bieber -- made his start on youtube .
no one has to give a green light to your ideas .
and today we all feel like we are also a owner of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re also barely hitting the media today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzle bits .
imagine the first piece : a man burning his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
keep him in the face of the communicates in saigon , as he must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , now spotted his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never forgot me his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t for free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red quiet on the sea .
my mom was 18 when her father died -- in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film , saga glitt took a boat still on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s an image of the first radiation particle , which returned the entire track around the lhc , then colonized with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles sprinkling on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
they were terrified of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
if you took a prisoner , my sister and i , you would have drunk yourself and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , clapping every wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came a lot of times , but i was fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the extinction of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that gave me one of the men on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like that again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations that together build a new life .
but what voodoo is so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine worked , which is a big triumph .
we settled in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike in the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the scaffolding from the ladentals came from the rest of the world .
and the fetches of broken english were swapped between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , doubled layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to get rid of , and most of the time , the new things that came out of the second hand .
two strands for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this , when someone visited the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; slight eye , &quot; and here and there are transformers : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something went up in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to our grandmother &apos;s movements in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came so that i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , and then she did a cosmetic training , and she opened another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and inflexible , and troubled kids , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who put unquestionable demands on their own .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe life that wore tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and isolation .
but that &apos;s how many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who was invited to speak in places that she had never heard of , and in homes that she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have graduated every single one of their days in the last 20 years , telling and sleeping each other the stories of their day , we still have three of them in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we were climbing the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about juvenile ingenuity and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and discounted .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine is running on high performance .
i met people all over life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the borders of the possible .
and even though i graduated from that , i realized that i couldn &apos;t deal with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new image -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead to the collapse of the horizon so easily that you can accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not as afraid as it is .
opportunities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and of wagnish .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me that the shoe doesn &apos;t go to be a little bit of a challenge .
now , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of one day , i was cooking a giant pot soup that we shared .
we worked late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved and adventure went on .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and local mandarin the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother was raising her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without her husband &apos;s support , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to court and cloning in her own case , and an even bigger conversation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go &quot; proved to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories and made sure that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; they didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
you see who we were , and how life has shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to our own lives .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections between nine and a half thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manufactured factor .
now i &apos;d like my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of entitlement .
can i give you a bug in your life that is courageously drifting every wave , the unbiased , steady tuckers of the engine , the wide horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is here today in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and by doing that , the wires are heating slightly and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is expressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much ridden road .
but it has an unexpected turn .
and yet , there &apos;s a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living commandments are the minds .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to find out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but in the end , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how to make it tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , this is all even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the basics are very simple .
i see it as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that it &apos;s not possible .
so we overlist our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combination of photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine pictures , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of illumination .
and these two images meet these two demands -- shot from the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images begin and end by connecting them seamlessly .
makes it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , we &apos;re looking at the individual images , including photographic deprivation , like field depth , debris , colors and disorders , we &apos;re wiping the boundaries between the different images and making them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think this is just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to have a compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in winter , i knew that it would take me several months to plan them , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a light trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we redesigned them , repaired them .
and yes , i actually put the house on the top of the island in red to make it look swedish .
so to get a realistic outcome , it goes from me , looking at planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of different images .
and here &apos;s every piece very well planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and it can also be pretty realistic .
so there are all kinds of tools , and the only thing that we are doing is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects are missing .
and i think the most important point is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all on their way back now .
and one of the things that we introduced at radboud university was to hire a major listener .
she &apos;s not particularly scientific about this -- she &apos;s putting a cup of coffee or tea and asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are failing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
it has a button , it has a button .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilos .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it &apos;s also sending my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be reoperational .
and they &apos;re also called off by my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not just the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump on my wlan-waage , and people talk to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group compulsion , group forced to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play any kind of game together to better control their health .
next week , it comes to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure measuring device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , and they can not only take control , they can be captains on their own ship , but they can also help us with health care in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make the methods that are easy to use , and start with this , to hug patients in the team .
and they can do that through such methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way , such accidents are again displaying the debate about the value of science and engineering on these boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
nobody knew where the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed in business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastrian and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and in the next couple of weeks , you can also use your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we &apos;re beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationships or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these could be copper services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the melted aed is still in its place .
please help us do this and try to not just improve health , but take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to conserve by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be conspired by the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to expose the soul of the living , so that the akolyth becomes the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , when he defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind as to assume that our scientific ideas are finally valid , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumph is complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it may take a long time to be charged .
now -- we can just skip this over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything that they hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peace scorps for computer freaks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city management .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to rathethicists .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban collaborators .
but what they really do is show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so you meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freeing him up when he &apos;s tuned in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at fighting the fire when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team last year of fellows in boston who were doing the code for america .
they were there in february , and it was doing a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open up these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik sophiels-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freely shrinking the sidewallows , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a fire hydrant .
you agreed to him freely when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s expanding rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gulls .
and chicago just introduced them so that people would open up the bueral sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities that plan to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread mature , organic , of course .
if you know about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
it &apos;s usually a few years of software making .
we had a team that was working on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do this .
it was about a method that parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing else .
there &apos;s a project right now in california that the taxpayers have cost two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spreads from rarity , is a kind of a shot before the bug on the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should work .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , that means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , the app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a saled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who make the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about her , they repair her .
however , a recent thing has happened in my life and my career , which has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost out of our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you think about it because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was mainly about choosing people into a office .
now after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that communities are all about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this peculiar event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called michael eat , pray , love -- that , unlike all of my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call 311 in your city .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , you all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for a lot of different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open up all the doors in your house and play very noisy music and see if the livestock &apos;s off ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m being treated as if i was refused to the end .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the new urban mechanics office in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them out ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking about human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , a neighbor saw it .
and the next post that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
thylacine ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- the process is refused .
turn the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacines . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . that &apos;s where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
the voodoodooists like to say , &quot; you white people go to church and talk about god .
for example , you &apos;re very worried about me and saying , &quot; don &apos;t you worry you &apos;re never going to overcome that success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to governmental services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to remember this is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is choosing .
how often have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject ourselves , and we expect the government , reflect our values , and our needs , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
don &apos;t you worry about writing your whole life on and never creating a book that anyone in the world cares about ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that this thing that we own , and that we pay for , can be something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machinery of government .
so the occupythesiology movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , who is an answer to the sec-memo on the financial reform legislation .
that &apos;s not being politically active , that &apos;s bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world we want to leave behind to our children .
okay , that &apos;s really audacity .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to reconstruct the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems .
now the average age of our field is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that &apos;s grown up looking at your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting for , which is who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your mind on any channel at any time , and you do it .
so , when you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer with the same kind of frightened response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
this could be to open up a fire hydrant , hunt , turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and surely , we could have liberated these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of the government who pay taxes and receive performance .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question that i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we have to do together , all together , we &apos;re just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; don &apos;t you be afraid to never succeed ?
my role is usually to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up , and i thought , since i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on , with these incredible leaps that are happening so fast that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by just showing you a single , boring slide .
... if you could show the slide , please .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general form .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some of the other ones that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is equal to a power scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
don &apos;t you worry that the humiliation of a statement is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the light again , please .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph is going to be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us a lot .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but when something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology was going to continue as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi in the morning , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to go after this craftsmanship and you &apos;re never going to come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrap of rotten dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it &apos;s not that fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is increasing exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as quickly as it is now .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of it .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be good ?
what is this new state that the world is slowly accepting ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was a future somewhere in 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go beyond that .
so in other words , every year , the future has shrinked by a year since i was in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that right now it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try and look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple wedding of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is yes .
so i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to first talk about a couple of other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that &apos;s what i want to look at on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the big picture makes sense if you divide it into some billion-dollar steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and it &apos;s 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of floating chemicals .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did that .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story of it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was smashing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from the outside and grow .
everybody who was like that started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet was not about living in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a little , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals that were found in it have spread to unequal amounts .
so every droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of more optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside , and divided faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied in greater extent .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is that when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in a way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet has learned the ability to defeat information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , they found a way in this mindless , evolutionary way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
and the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information has remained the same over the period of 2.5 billion years that it came out of .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same writing .
and that is that every being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that , just for the sake of pleasure , we can write something in this code ourselves .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white powder , which i &apos;m trying to hold in airports from security officers .
and there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 sophi22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everybody in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i &apos;d actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the dewriting of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m much more afraid of things that no one would ever know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin , and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
now this communication allowed the reason of communities , which , in a sense , were in the same boat ; they were synertic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were more repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which together act as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level on which evolution was happening was no longer the single cell , but was the whole cell community , which we call the organism .
the next step now happened within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;m like , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the period of the life of a single organism , rather than over that evolutionary period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a certain fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years to do so , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures weren &apos;t there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could take place within a time of learning .
what happened then is that individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , basically , giving grunting sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sounds , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in other people &apos;s minds .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , present it .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video conferences , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together into something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we have been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel like they &apos;re doing ?
you &apos;ve also seen ty &apos;s little evolutionary example of where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolation program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve accelerated the timeline again .
the first steps in history that i told you took one billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself , and it becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they &apos;re making us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other people don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current work is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give it over , and the machine makes something that goes far beyond our skills , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve been using a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we install an evolutionary process in the machine , which is going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s evolved from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these randomly chosen instructions , do all the programs , and finally choose the ones that are the closest to my prescriptions . &quot;
so in other words , i define first what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to sort numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve used to do that .
so , there are programs that can sort the most numerous numbers .
of course , the chance of randomly elected instructions is very small that , by accident , they &apos;re kind of numbers , so none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them may be a little bit lucky to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my premise .
store them , erase the rest .
now reproducers all the remaining ones that have best sorted the numbers .
and that is , with a method of recombination , analog for reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how do you do with it ?
take two programs , and they make kids through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to precautions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluating them again .
maybe bring in some mutations .
and try it again with another generation .
all these generations only take a few milliseconds .
and so i can make evolution go through over millions of years in the computer in just a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
and finally , i get programs that can perfectly sorrow numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so if i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s promise and weird programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job because you &apos;re from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because your life depended on whether you did the job right .
i sat in a 747 together with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and said , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &apos; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of pieces that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it becomes too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken in by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the chemists &apos; group didn &apos;t get the reputation of alcohol addicted manic depressed people over the centuries .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibility of this yet .
so , in a way , technology is overwhelming us .
now we &apos;re using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies are feeding on themselves today .
we &apos;re taking off .
we got to a point where the analog is at the time , as a single cell organism , evolved into multicellular organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this reputation , to be mentally immensely unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that there &apos;s something more coming after us .
i think it &apos;s very humble to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever &apos;s next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen out .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about nothing changed since the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians back then , we jumped into a car and we swirled over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , the young and often died of your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna was allowed , he took a bow , shot out into the ground and the water .
now we &apos;re doing this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it frightened me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver plot .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world of pirates and unhappy ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually get suicid seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
i felt like our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went to the world of technology to see how i could use them to make magic rather than kill .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that readers can connect all over the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text and animation and sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with it ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these kinds of possibilities .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i don &apos;t mean magicians and dragons , but i mean the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to kick the ipad and release the fireflies .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book and world becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places in the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very time-consumed .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody say that , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve got this notion so internalized and collective accepted that creativity and suffering somehow belong together , and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the sea floor .
we &apos;ve all heard about fees and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years in an old muffy book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that &apos;s dealing with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the theme of environmental crisis , the big problem of the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , in their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you get sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of stickers , stones , boxes and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photographers and tag a piece of tree .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fuch today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways to connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning to have an interaction where you use the video of the ipads , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of elevators that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away , read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where technology &apos;s natural forces can get closer and get closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with this ? because with just one centimeter of distance , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in research , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in the social development settlements and places where there &apos;s a lot of hope .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and a force that otherwise wouldn &apos;t have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and that &apos;s why i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household , dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a gun , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
see these amazing demonstrations : voodoo akolyths in a trancestate , the glowing coal without burning , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a way that it lasts when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it go into the next century .
she was also the starting point of a lot of arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born as slaves in virginia in the 1840s .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very strongly .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said &quot; no , &quot; she hugged me again , and when i said &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative lives .
the only problem was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins went all around .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that one morning i woke up and went into the living room , all my cousins walking around .
my grandmother sat at the end of the room and stared at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
and this went on for 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and she came over to me , and she took me over , and she said , &quot; come , bryan , you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it yesterday .
and i know definitely that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start , this dark path of conjecture , to sort of shrink down -- especially in the circumstance in which i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;ll do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; the next thing i &apos;ll tell you is that you will always do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , and i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
after all , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is that you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise it . &quot;
i grew up on the land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year of younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack of beer with me snatched my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just kind of silly around there .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she accepted , and then they offered one to me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . now we do it , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink something . &quot;
and then he looked at me in the face and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going to make you crazy because of the conversation with grandma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
and it &apos;s very likely that everything i &apos;m going to write from now on is going to be valued by the world as the work that came after the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted in public .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all of her grandchildren , they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in prison during prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the issues that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in jail .
today it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged from the currency , or with conditions of punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , released on bestos , or in conditions of punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , in the best position to the exposure to the law .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with race , it &apos;s also hijacked by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that will treat them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the result .
and yet , we seem to be quite pleased with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start at 9 a.m. , drink gin . and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state of alabama is constantly depriving them of the right to vote when they &apos;re sentencing them .
here and now in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honesty will be as high as before the passing of the election law .
silence is ear-numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-tenths of children to death in prison .
in this country , there are lifelong sentences for children without conditional exposure .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i would rather continue to do this work that i love .
i put people in death cells .
the question of death penalty is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is : has a human being deserved to die for a crime that he has ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we &apos;ve executed , one that we &apos;ve found for innocence comes out of the deposit and was released out of the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one out of nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the sophii from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly with an airplane if for nine airplanes that would pick one up .
but somehow we manage to get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , time by the end of the reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped your life .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re giving talks . they &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in our nation &apos;s history , we have to do with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with this . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the racial rendering and decades of racially-motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to write a safe distance between me and my very natural climbing about how the reaction will be to the written .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race is not to overcome the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , they can never be in germany . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models for this last year to do this , i &apos;ve been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more reasonable ideas about this than we can help creative risks deal with the emotional risks that are connected to creativity .
it became completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we will ever stand up for systematic killing people .
it would be unaware of us , consciously and targeted to fix people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be remorse .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it is black . 22 times higher , when the complained black , and the victim knows -- in the same states where the body is bored by gelynchter people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnection .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult topics , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this is a quest that led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but in the end , these realities are being transferred by suffering , abuse , deployment , boundary .
i think it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , it means time to get up and think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe things at the end that we can &apos;t see .
we do that . as rational as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think is driving us not only to be open to all the bright and enthusiastic things , but also to the dark and the problem .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said that .
when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness .
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities also have to engage in .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch you deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege to meet rosa parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks came back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-boykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white woman whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women would meet and just talk to each other .
and occasionally , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
one day , i sat there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me to say , &quot; well bryan , tell me what the &quot; initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine dienereal spirit that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go to injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been convicted innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate life penalty without conditional exposure to children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine dienery spirits of creativity demons .
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
and then ms. carr leaned to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i believe that the ted community should be tahorse .
we need to find ways . to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true of every human being on the planet .
when someone &apos;s lying , they &apos;re not just a liar .
it &apos;s known by socrates that he believed he had a demonstration that told him farther away .
if someone takes something they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so stimulating , we &apos;re not going to end up being measured by our technology , not by the things we &apos;re developing , not by our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re just beginning to understand the really amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
the offspring of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result , this people returned to an isolated volcanic massively , which rise above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of physically creative mind , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas are hurting our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the research prison and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and is supposed to be a court as an adult .
and then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , it must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this assignment , and the headline was , &quot; contract , my poor , 14-year-old black clients , to treat like a privileged , white , 75-year-old topmanager . &quot;
in my commission , i explained that the misconduct of the state sanctity and the police and the absence errors were to take into account .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing left in this country , that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy contract or actually written it .
and to my deployment , i had not only written it , but also sent to the court .
a few months passed , and i &apos;d just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i &apos;ve got to go to the court and this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to live literally in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and would sort of help the artist do work , and make the result of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i went up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me into the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
that &apos;s brilliant -- there &apos;s it , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual , to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i went to the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in because they were angry .
i &apos;d written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office workers .
the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i looked up and down the janitor .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
and finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned face , and he sat right behind me , almost to the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in that was disturbing that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the court room ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to say to this young man , don &apos;t lose sight of the goal . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going to be far , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of aging was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not completely designed as human beings , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is linked to each individual survival .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i just want to say to those of you who see this as well , just say , don &apos;t lose your goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious desire and heard to help them and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a volkspot in this spring that &apos;s really about trying to do an effort to redirect some of the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all deadly defects don &apos;t end with arrests .
if your work was brilliant , you wouldn &apos;t look at it all for you , everybody knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come out of court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference is going to suggest that investing money in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate has declined enormously in america .
this fact is often put into a relationship with the higher incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
when your work flew -- not quite your mistakes , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come in the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of the theft , good , rather than that you force them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a criminal justice , not less .
and i believe that our current punishment philosophy is not helping anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string here .
they are an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit lahm .
famine in somalia . speaker 3 : o.c. spray of police .
four : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
rs : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . standstill . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these particular topics .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second , every single day , our senses capture much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it &apos;s sorting and enchewing all the information in search of any kind of evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices , which give us seven days a week , 24 hours a day , all these negative news messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but possibly that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodstream continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed , and we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries -- and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures who are taking orders from divinity .
maybe that &apos;s reality .
perhaps the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that it will allow us to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodegradation , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in the very long run , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so that we can predict the development .
in the last 100 years , average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has adapted to inflation average income in the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has dropped by a tenth .
and the food , electrical transportation and communications costs have decreased a lot of times .
steve pinker has shown us that we live in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the past 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people began to believe that creativity came from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re continuing to increase our expectations .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , climate conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of it is technology , and it &apos;s growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes information technology is going to be on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and doubling the price performance quotient every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone costs about a million times less in your pocket , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this genius or this artist -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law of the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it &apos;s slowing down for none of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic trajectory on the left , it goes up .
so growth itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
cloud-computing , what my friends at autodesk call infinite computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow you to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuel , vaccination and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i used to go through the newspapers and look for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson constrains human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask students to create companies , products and services that can positive the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the pot , like the pelvis , and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to incorporate a questionnaire of human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think of creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on this planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about making goods out of scarce .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating force .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iiii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam for dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver steck , napoleon himself got gold bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum steck .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is why the dome of the tone monument was made out of aluminum .
even though aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it &apos;s not as pure metal .
it &apos;s being connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy to the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy is bouncing on the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
that deals and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity ; the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , you managed to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar power dropped by 50 percent last year .
this was published last month with a study that showed that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy overload , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think that this success pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are oblivious , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you a little bit -- he gave me permission -- his engineering , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the students &apos; home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola is going to apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology &apos;s supported innovation that &apos;s out there today .
and if that &apos;s true , and i think it &apos;s true , the question is .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent reduction rate of mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013 .
just remember that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan , 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have ever predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , technology to medical diagnostics -- are now literally dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best thing about this is probably what is expected to us in health .
i &apos;ve had the pleasure last month with the qualcommand foundation announcing what we call &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams all over the world to connect all of these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can pump in or test your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the staff of health care .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from their outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of surplus .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are population .
we just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and food in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected between two billion people online .
by 2020 , we go from two billion internet users to five billion internet users .
three billion new heads that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
until this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe returning to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to desire ?
and instead of economic stagnation , i see one of the greatest economic shots in history .
these people represent multiple trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , never before deaf voices ?
what about the oppressed , wherever you are , giving a voice to pay attention and to create change , for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some people might know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game in which people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
and depending on its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that nowadays , human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who &apos;s the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor was a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked in the daytime as an assistant of business in a rehab clinic , and at night was the best protein creator in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to exponential technology tools .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s necessary .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would report really rigorous scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply federal magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long enough time that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own wrong prestige to make this possible .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
moneyball appears soon , and it &apos;s about statistics , and to use it , it &apos;s a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard .
it &apos;s the average power of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 strokes .
that means hitting the ball in the field , it &apos;s coming up , it &apos;s not being trapped , and whoever tried to throw the ball at first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
you know what it &apos;s called a 300ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a all-star .
you know what it &apos;s called a 4,000-ter ?
this is somebody who &apos;s certainly hitting four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable that i &apos;ve talked to you about .
suppose you have a blind loan , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , doesn &apos;t it ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease vessels , and your home physician refers it to a cardiologist whose average performance is in vascular imaging 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we send each of them , including me , into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody cares about the details of how to do it .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessively obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldmann was going to learn for a blood test .
and so it was .
and i learned in my little class in the sisters residence at toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely nuts of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of any artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify the renal tubulent azidose .
and all the time , i collected more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i closed with cum laude .
and i left the medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as i could , i was as close to complete as i could , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met the printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto , as a woman , printer was brought to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was proposed to the cardiological layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency workers were looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that , as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everyone here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and giving back to my chief doctor .
i studied printer , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made sounds crushing .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from a congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping all of the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it fills all of that , so the shorthand came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i put them on the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine that we call diuretics , pills of water , so that they leave the fluid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , he can sometimes feel straight to paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my chief doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the listener and do what i should have done , which would have been a call in my chief doctor to explain it with him , so that he had a chance to make a picture of his own .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute more information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the base of the glacier for 18 years , and two periods of nine years , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they were living in the lap of their body , they are now spending metamorphorically in the great mother &apos;s lap .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet in her entire life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she was working outside on the fields , and she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
so that i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me that was trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so missing self-confidence that i asked the nurse what was taking care of the woman printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , &quot; yeah , i think it &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgence papers and a hospital car and rescue assistants and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there was another nurse saying , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals also fear this , but the emergency care is particularly because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse asked the nurse .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular tone .
so she was back .
she was back , and she was dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock condition .
she barely breathed , and she walked blue .
it would roll across the country .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure up .
they attached them to the breathing machine .
i was shocked , and i was distorted to the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped that it would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered an untreatable brain damage .
her family gathered .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up on the shot .
on the other day , they were reading her -- woman printer , a woman , a mother and a grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
they say that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i made blueprints , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it swells you up on dexterity and you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it and gives you a terrible discussion , but when you end up making you a bad conscience , and you swear that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do review and never make the mistake again .
that &apos;s the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about it is the one that makes you intrinsically sick .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that what you &apos;ve done is not what you &apos;re doing , but you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , it was very dear .
she knew that she could only do one of those moments , and that was , in her words , running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was saving the stomach and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the chief doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it laid out .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and maybe i could feel better again .
and i was acting with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could stumble .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was just that she had to get quickly enough to a piece of paper and a pen , so that she could catch it as it went through her , and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency hospital in a community hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a rich rag .
it was a lot going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always pointed out here .
i looked in the wheels , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and even as he walked out of the door , he showed up on his racks .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief asked me for a conversation in her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through it , and she missed it . she said it would move across land and , as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; are you remembering the patient with the tight rake ? &quot;
it turns out that he had a streptococtococcctococcus infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google this , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rake , but it &apos;s the upper respiratory system , and it causes the conclusion of the breath .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated and went breeze to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfolding light twice .
there &apos;s a lot of this , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that was only 14 patients a night .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no shortage of treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget that part -- she said that there were moments when she almost missed it .
in one , i thought he had kidney stones .
i put the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague noticed that the patient was reconciling a hardening in the lower right sector and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i put on fluids to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to look at him as well .
and he did , and when he noticed a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , surgery became surgery , and they did well .
both of these cases naked to me , asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but is total nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , shame and no support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through it , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through it , and then she -- she said -- it was like grappling with her other hand and getting it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can share the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t find , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach them my mistakes so they don &apos;t do the same ?
if i was in a room -- like right now , i don &apos;t know what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when did you hear the last time from someone who talked about failures about failures ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask them for their immediate support , and tell them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before they got really uncomfortable , anybody would hire a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken the wrong leg off , believe me that i had trouble looking at it .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make any . the ones that constrain the lack of sleep and the ones that have bad outcomes and the results that have good outcomes .
she caught the poem on his tail and pulled it back into her body and took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we banned those who make mistakes out of medicine , we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sensation and journalism , i &apos;ve created a personal medical trial on medical errors and wrong treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first papers , which i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely incomprehensible .
we work in a system where every day errors happen , where one out of 10 medications is either false or false doses , where hospital infections are always , and they &apos;re getting more and more and more and more likely to cause devastation or devastation .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of all the errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t really look at the problem as well as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all of this time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- will sustain equilibrium .
in those opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with chest pain .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat it and i sweat it and i give them a little bit of alcoholic breath , and suddenly the story is transmitted with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this summed up is inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i &apos;ve been taught , and you put out all the miserable health professionals , there &apos;s no one left at the end .
when i heard that , i thought that was creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everybody from rescue assistants to the head of the cardiologists , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show you with the microphone .
and then their pupils expand , and they came in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that makes them capable of doing that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , knowing that his humanity , accepting it , is not proud of making mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning from them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports others when they &apos;re talking about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to make it just , but in a loving , supportive way that everybody benefits .
and it works in a medical culture that recognizes that people are filling the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people are also making mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to make backups , which make it easier to make mistakes that make people inevitable , and it also enables them to create loving , supportive spaces in which anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential mistakes and even rewarding them , and that , specifically , for people like me , that should make mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of those .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
but i &apos;m regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day at the same time , struggle and get really awkward .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing normal values .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories earlier to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think that he was hunting fins , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even i was in my masonry , sometimes this thing was rooted .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
this is a story that we &apos;ve heard many times about the galapagos or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
and yet , we still come to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochure still describes them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the shiftable waistline .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a few mangroves were surrounded .
there were buntbarches of about 20 centimeters , black mouths , a subset of buntbaria .
the fisheries of these buntbaria were very productive , and the fishermen lived well , and they earned a lot of good in ghana .
when i went back to that 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half the size .
adult , they &apos;re five centimeters .
they had been genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also fortunate enough to be there .
so it hasn &apos;t changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my co-creation in the introduction of the trawling in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather in the early &apos; 60s -- europe funded a lot of development projects .
fishing promoting meant countries that started already 100,000 fish , the industrial fishery of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on it , and we made a survey all over the southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the reason of the sea .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the debris , the debris pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the reason of the sea came to deck , and then it was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you run a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case -- a hard reason , or soft coral , becomes a matchmaker crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time we started a living one .
she was not drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of debris is is accumulated every time by fishermen drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but to even keep us in mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it &apos;s changing . it &apos;s changing , because for people , their actions are very natural .
each generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is tom waits , and i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , they just want to get the poor remains .
that &apos;s our goal now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem was people who certainly , when they lived in predatory societies , killed animals , and who only became aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely , just before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose the animals that are often occurring .
you always lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a huge loss .
over time , we focus on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun starts shining on the tracks of the astonishing beautiful landscape , suddenly everything you &apos;ve learned in the abstract level is confirmed in amazing glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really , really how i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life &apos;s time was tom &apos;s embodiment of the pure modern artist , who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him , and to deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was different once .
of course , a lot of people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they are in an earlier form , is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there &apos;s , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain in this area can &apos;t be used , can &apos;t be used by the fisheries scientists , or fisheries , usually , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine reserve can play .
because by marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and everything changed for him .
so the people who see a marine reserve and who benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of the chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the colors and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahonese story , why were you so touched by the imagery world ?
because it calls something that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give is to cameron , so he turns &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he drove at high speed when he suddenly heard a little fragment of a melody , which , as it is often in inspiration , is very , very , very palpable for him , and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he leans afterwards , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf with examples of this typewriter .
the reason for that , the government could track where a text came from .
they found an article with the wrong thought , and they could find the creator of this thought .
and we couldn &apos;t understand in the west how anyone could do that , and how much that would constrain freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printers and print a page , that page has printed bright yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that makes the page clear to you and your printer .
that &apos;s what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper ; he doesn &apos;t have a pen ; he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exist today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts , this old climb in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjordan sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegal by using , for example , trojans to steal money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers that have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying an infected computer online .
u.s. intelligence agency fror two months ago was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that it &apos;s more likely today that we &apos;re going to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will be online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it .
the second largest attacker group we see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , for example , for your audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months , and have become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main attacks : criminals who are doing it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are doing it , but the last group are nations , governments , who are running the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it illustrates what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to register insolvine , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in , and they had a thoroughly hacked system .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the senior leaders of this group to ask if he could make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
but instead of panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die in the aftermath of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate requires , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now , we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail because they know that they can trust more than local providers and that they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around their conversations .
but can you do that if you &apos;re in a foreign space ?
certificate hacking and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought and did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that have happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 , the egyptian intelligence headquarters , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , a folder was called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could catch -- in very large scale -- any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so , western governments are providing totalitarian governments with aid so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strajer found , and this was a trojan who was used by german government officials to get their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re pretty sure to tap your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving cars ?
but today we &apos;re far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strajer to pick up their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer of people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but i don &apos;t care because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
do i look like i could write down a song ?
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right that we give away is given forever .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module of cement with solid measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in a position to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically committed stone .
and within a few years , lego went into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones have been produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges , beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everybody .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
meanwhile , the next year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a key difference : the transistor was just experts .
if not , squawks today , somebody else .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hand of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them in the wrong way .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
you add a blue one to a green one , and you can make light .
you can put in a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or delete , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow down the blink , you just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , notes , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to kids , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in the everyday world and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had , for example , designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just carton , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was often as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a play-doh hummer who &apos;s afraid of darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design facilities and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds it was lifted when he took the genius out of it , where he didn &apos;t make anything as a trouble and left it where it came from , so to speak , and realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed the way i worked , and it saved me a little bit .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of writing , pray , love , and i fell into one of these pits of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start thinking it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we , as the younger brothers , are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered tom speaking in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took a look at the manuscript , and i spoke my comment towards a blank corner of the room .
i talked out loud : listen , you thing , and i know both of you , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and hold your share of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t -- you know what , the hell .
i &apos;m still going to write on , because that &apos;s my job .
and i &apos;d like to give you a protocol that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have been gathered to moons with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours -- until dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but again and again , very rarely , something special happened . one of the performers actually became overseas .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know that all of you in your life have seen such a performance .
it was as if time was staggering and the dancer was stepping through a kind of plot . he didn &apos;t do anything but he had ever done it before -- 1,000 nights earlier . but everything was coming together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed pure human .
it was lit up from the inside , and it was lit up from the bottom , and everything was lit up through a divine fire .
when this happened , people knew what this was . they called it in his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing : michael allah , allah , allah , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moars conquered south spain , they brought this practice , and the language changed over the centuries from michael allah , allah , allah , to michael olé , olé , olé , that you still hear in the pen and flamenco dances .
every time we think of innate and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old scaffolding of the noblen wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought , or , on the other hand , thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical : the allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer has a fifth of god in it .
it &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe it will never rise to those heights again .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name again when he turns , but what is he going to do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of pure if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- from an unthinkable source for a reader time in your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so , infants are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think for sure in the past few months , while i &apos;ve been working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- when the dangerous , scary , strongly expected successor of my passing success .
what i have to say to myself all the time , when i get crazy about it , is that i &apos;m not afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you have on your side decides , for a moment , to show a little bit of wonder through your effort , it &apos;s a tuxedo !
and if not , still dance your dance .
and that &apos;s olé ! that &apos;s for you , despite all that .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of space for this in the malaria swamp of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth that &apos;s not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
&apos;olé ! &apos; for you in spite of all that , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the bottom 48 states , has shrinked 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t really express enough the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse photograph of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is labeled with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood , which flows out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because global warming is saving the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there &apos;s huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s saving , is transposed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we cross this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane itself claimed from the water .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another flat sea last winter .
wow !
it &apos;s fine . the question is , how will we get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat storage warms greenland from the north .
it means that a little child from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind , who is , or determining their destiny , will become a very different person , and have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little kid from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be rejected .
this is an annual submersible .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the kangerussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level is going up through the land ice sheet , it &apos;s going to the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adding .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice sheet .
and the west antarctica , which has come across a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is the equivalent of 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see on the top of new lakes , which were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a bunch of erz , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water out of that melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the water quantities have expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow of the sierra snow .
this is the basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austroque all over the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have increased in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day in the oceans .
look carefully at the area of the eastern pacific , western and both sides of the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor in global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest polluters , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal-fired factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been argued in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be harassed .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year promoting clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow in america in our entire country .
this is what happened at christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me a different person than my friends under the kwakitl , who believe that these forests are the forests of the hukuk and the curved celestial beak and the cannibali spirits that live in the northeast of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon is getting cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers are staying in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
that &apos;s why we set it at the top of the line to spend a significant amount of money on the way to get an ad action to get the truth of coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it &apos;s still smelling good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s make it quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s do a tour of this modern , clean coal-fired factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal-fired technology .
and yet burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here is changing everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean , clean coal-fired technology today .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , different ways of orienting the earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a brave new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
take america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
reinventing america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
new america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , and it &apos;s fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were growing up when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and reach out the hands , pick up the claws , and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my professional adviser , patti , and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we could use computers , which , instead of a mouse pointer , moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work ... what if we could intervene with both hands and physically grasp data and arrange it as we want ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer and develop siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can detect their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
and more importantly , it &apos;s physical , which is why you can only move it out of your hands and access it .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop awareness of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the enemies of our process with them , we can begin to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is designed for the video review , and when i tip it in a direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going to go backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , that &apos;s what interests you .
if you &apos;re surrounded by einader , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their slope .
and an interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting color in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve configurated three siftables as color pots , and i can use them to pour color in the middle where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can throw back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math , logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series , which i do with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that &apos;s kind of a mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable randomly dedicated letters , and as you try to form words , they get tested on a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomomi , how you snuck this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came out on a trip to the media lab , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
what &apos;s interesting about this kind of application is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the right .
it turns out that he just wanted to stack up the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
and snuck this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , and it &apos;s being eaten by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trick-twist .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he is going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to bring a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can let the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not going to create a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with an open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example i have time for today to show it is a music sequencer for live performances that we have recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you feed them by just holding a ton sift to a sequence sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like reverberation and filter .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
in fact , i discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who has introduced the psychedelic ethicia with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 300s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t hire these tryptamins as a hallucination gene , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then even more ordered effects like pace and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put the leadership in two sequencing siftable and put it in a row , expand it and add it a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do something more about it .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter with the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter with the bass , for a little bit more expression .
i can reorder the sequence as they go off .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; they expand or shrink them in the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be adopted because they &apos;re naturally occurring by a human gut called monoamine oxidase .
and finally , i can shut down the whole sequence by running the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that are better at matching how our brains and bodies work .
and today i &apos;ve had time to show you part of this new design world and some of the opportunities that we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the verge of this new generation of applications for interacting with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i look forward to the conversations with all of you !
yeah , good day .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be embedded in a couple of other chemicals that the mao denatulate .
i just have to pick it up a little bit , and that &apos;s biohacking is dealing with modern molecular biology .
i study molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been looking at this biohacking for a couple of years now , and i started this , because i just wanted to know more and i wanted to do it myself , especially what i learned in the study theoretically .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general right now , in general , is biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , now it &apos;s extremely important , and it &apos;s much , much more important in the future .
there are all kinds of controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s now craig venter in the u.s. , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
now , there are things that have come up totally everyday , but most people are not aware of , for example , detergent enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now , what &apos;s fascinating is that the takarboline , which is in the liane , are mao inhibitors of exactly the way that you need to potential the tryptamins , so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this technology , i just kept on going in there .
so why hacking ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then it &apos;s always going to be , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hackerscene , because that &apos;s not what she actually started doing , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be a problem , it can be a problem , it can be a problem , it can be a simple problem , it can be a problem , it can be a question , and how do you do it better , or how do you do it better ?
and it &apos;s just been generated with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , and there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene that uses electronics to do all kinds of things .
and just now , in the direction of biology , i want to take this metaphor that comes out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is , not quite like computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is larger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i found this incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
it &apos;s actually only taken two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on a network , but has now members or active people all over the world .
this is a more artistic alignment , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborators with scientists trying to deal with these technologies and ask questions and do this creatively , and there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the united states a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also going to go a little bit more business , and then they &apos;re going to ask , you know , applied questions .
and from these networks , which have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene like this , which i want to portray for a moment .
here in the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , nonprofit contract , where everybody can get there .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old people , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with them , they set up a lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols look at .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for a long time , these two other networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics tinkering , and they &apos;re combining it in a fairly remote way .
a group from ankara , which i met a while ago , they have a group of students who wanted to convey more to the public what they learned in college , and they have made small action on street fests and tried to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and you can also go and ask the society , &quot; okay , what do you know what you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you in ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology , you need some kind of material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant talks to us . &quot;
or , what you normally understand under a lab is that these are kind of dedicated machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. titles and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , you don &apos;t really have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really the way it is .
and s o with this premise with this premise then , for example , brian degger , in england , tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam coat , a heat plate , and , yes , that &apos;s how supper breasts , and then bacteria grew , worked .
so anyone who has been gamed up a soup that he &apos;s left for too long has been done .
i then tried this in my lab to expand a little bit , and then i bought second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did a little bit of d.n.a analysis , tried to do a father &apos;s test , which is like this / d.n.a fingerprinting , back home .
it shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but it should be .
down here in this picture , you see the lab , in leadership , so there &apos;s one of these guys with all kinds of lab scaffolding that the university has been doing , a group in paris that has been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s also pretty interesting things , and i want to do a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who was also mentioned hackerspace , this kind of volcanic school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , you can see , it &apos;s relatively straight , so that &apos;s what people are doing on their own , all the way back to big , big , big organizations that are already doing this in more institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but always the approach of it being simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , o.k , it &apos;s now giving us a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who always chat and so on .
and then , from the do-it-yourself bio website , the founder , and said o.k , we have to really meet , also meet real , and then organized two sessions , one in london , two thousand ten , and shortly after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and then , it was also about , yes , o.k , who are we , what do we want to say , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what are our goals , our basis ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was pretty intuitive , so everybody just expressed his wishes , his and what moved him , then .
there was a very good code , i think .
and we have that one that &apos;s not mandatory , but that &apos;s actually , i think , quite a good thing to do , and people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but somehow it didn &apos;t get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest , which seems to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what are we actually doing for projects ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland was that we wanted to make a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured , like a tractor beam , basically .
it really works , it &apos;s done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might be able to do that , then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , turn the lens off , turn it off , you have a microscope that &apos;s going to scale about four hundred times .
you see that down there .
and then we screwed up a d.v.d brenner and pulled the killer out the laser , and then tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot .
this is another project from the french group out of paris , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got this kind of brain tracking device , like e.e.g , or something like that , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy and they say , &quot; i thought you understood something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what happened .
and then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then your brainwaves were measured , and depending on what you thought , or how you thought , they took different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fancy project .
another thing from the united states , which also has to do with this father &apos;s story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymerase chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating d.n.a , building fragments so that you can make them visible .
so now , if i do that , the profilers at the crime scene , they go , they collect any hair samples , and then they turn that method on , and then they can say , okay , that hair belongs to that person , that kind of thing .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyan area , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they put two builders together , and they said , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve got open source , which is free hardware , electronics , these devices are assembled , and they &apos;re now the most market-driven providers of these devices in the world .
i think , kind of , six hundred dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it becomes more available .
so it &apos;s a very promising hack , i think .
one project i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two inches or so .
you invite d.n.a to gold particles , and then the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i made them light like this .
so the device you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but that &apos;s the kind of prototype that i did , but it looked pretty devoid , on such a branch , the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure on it , and that was too high , but the pressure was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juice pender and i put it on it .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in the full moon and you sing them in a different pitch .
a juice pender , if you make it full of water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six in a row .
and then you can accelerate the particles very , very enough , and then they also go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros upward , or something like that , sags about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , this is also the core issue of the scene right now to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have pretty little idea of it , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you did it yourself or saw it .
and i think technology is becoming increasingly important in our modern societies .
and if , as an informed citizen , you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society and talk to you , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than stamina .
and that &apos;s what happens in the words of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who have at least been officially admitted on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re there with less people than there actually exists .
so i know some of you who haven &apos;t come in .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , they &apos;re putting these places together .
