you know , one of the great sensitivity in traveling , and one of the pleasures with ethnography research is to live with the people who can remember the old days , and still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain of glorified stones , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the countless cultures of the world form a network of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important for the earth &apos;s well-being as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult position of the indigenous , they look at them as orginian and colorful , but they sort of confine to the past , while the real world , that &apos;s what our world is going on .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousand-year-olds only started .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five .
and this is now a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we hope , of course , that we &apos;re going to spread the same way , and then we &apos;re very well connected , so that more people can be involved .
and i would invite everybody to deal with it and try something .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that you will remember the 20th century , in 300 years , not for your wars or technological innovation , but rather than an era where we were against , and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted , so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work to people ?
this is a question that really drives me as a designer , but also in the field of research in usability and in all sorts of things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media , so that they can create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that the interactive media in us addresses archaic , cognitive models , so paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can regenerate them just by interactive media .
and that &apos;s very amazing , because you really believe that this high-technology that you &apos;re going to see is that it &apos;s actually going to bring you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i once wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them for a second .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
one of these archaic models is that we have a fundamentally natural relationship to virtuality .
that &apos;s basically the first time it sounds unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that , and i &apos;m going to show you by trying to prove that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since we &apos;ve been through these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very painful , even though we &apos;re using a codified language today .
and the third area , which is actually explaining itself .
we all know that the interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the reasoning of linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about virtuality , which is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house that you live in ?
that &apos;s not what we &apos;re going to be able to do right now , but it &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , and they live in this house , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not the technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , to show the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do this all the time .
and this ability to virtual virtualize the reality that people in the pre-industrial times also needed bitter , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photoolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory occurred .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t hear to be less on sioux than they were bow and arrow tasks than the americans stopped being american than they were doing horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called off , and using these virtual images , the imagination , they were also passed on to know .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
the interesting thing about this is that at the time , the human being was media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;m going to talk about .
basically , the tools of information mediation have been stories ever since .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shame , priest , so-called knowledge waters , were designed to keep knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong about stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still connect a thousand hours a year with the receptions of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the receptions of stories until the achievement of the great year .
now we think our love of stories depends on the fact that , as a child , we &apos;ve been sitting on the lap of our parents .
no , no , far missing .
it goes much further back to the cultures of the pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the field of interactive media , what &apos;s very impressive is that , by se , we have announced in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of the nootka-indians .
and the lives lived in the coast region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very inselfish area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-land maps .
you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in this , of the australian peoples .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead maps , but they &apos;ve used them like this , called songlines , or garbage paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be depicted over songs .
where the language was signed by the under-ordered rang .
that means that you navigated about sound and rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that has , of course , also enabled you to defragment these songs and put them together and move to the left , to the right and to the outcome again .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from the top of a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what happened there ?
this is what &apos;s happening in the genetically nanny machine age .
we &apos;ve moved in the so-called bird age before .
what happens is the machine age , and what happens is the book , and it &apos;s the photolitography .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened is that we have shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the image .
so , unfortunately , we have a little bit to virtualize god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far to say that these mass media , he says the book and the image , so not television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media have fossilized our memories and virtualized our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnicity , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally celebrated as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little bit of interference .
from the bird age to the machine age .
what has influenced our thinking and our memory ?
then these are interconnected influences of the pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re being transferred over the course of the centuries more and more by the influences of the machine age .
that means , instead of remembering individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we no longer produce ourselves .
we have an abstract language abstract .
we don &apos;t think of it as being in pictures that things are not in pictures anymore , but we &apos;re coding them to our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things being linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibets if you haven &apos;t seen it at the bottom .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the storytelling .
still , we &apos;re very , very arrested with the storytelling as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vogue age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacical , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage that bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our ability .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a moment .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , ideas , inspiration and intuitions , which have been defined by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled to lhasa with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china , through southeast tibet , and first of all , when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics of which you hear . 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubber and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered during the cultural revolution by the cathers .
so if you look at google glass , for example , then this is a concept that lets us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , to feel virtual as something normal , natural , again , is addressed .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically in not existential , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond to a human being intelligent .
all of this needs the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated from this , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelorwork of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are here today .
maybe you can stand up for a moment so that you can talk to the two about the project at the break .
and this project , i &apos;ve brought back as an example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed again .
the father of this young man was identified as the follower of the panchen lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer game , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people in front of some consols are happy , or that they &apos;re playing with some console in the hand .
anyway , they &apos;re doing that in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and this is meant to explore the outside world , so that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that a lot better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is , i &apos;m exploring a city by looking at where places were being positive or negative .
that meant that during the chinese invasion , he was killed immediately .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is , i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city in this way .
and we can look at this now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is a little bit of an explanation of what you see in a moment .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , and it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , and that is , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vow age , and that have gone a little bit of a shooting in the machine age , that the cyber age can be activated again with what we call the cyber age , and that in this way , we can get back to our roots in this way about complex , technological , new products , not the future , but actually come back to our roots .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very pleased to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a speaker sack , and i &apos;m going to talk instead .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her sacredness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but so far , i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers as well .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how the curiosity also changes our thinking , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to reboot and so on and so forth .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re thinking about next to the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often pushed into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all of the forms begin to deal with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on and so forth ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , more user-friendly , and that &apos;s where you have to look , which is actually for us people , of course , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , which is the next generation of human computers in which the human computer is interacting with how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i started to think , when &apos;s the natural or intuitive thing ?
maybe again , have to look back at this .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , in a short way , we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern into the computer society .
every society is shaped by a primarily medium .
in the beginning , the tribal society in language .
that means that you found yourself , by talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , you moved into the same cave , or in other areas , created cities , or villages , and created , in a way , tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no child can talk about nature , but we learn it sukzessive and proportionate , of course .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
and that was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started to manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what &apos;s fluid and alive , i &apos;m going to start it in stone , and i &apos;m going to manipulate it .
so , depending on how i master and when i &apos;m mailing , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a living kind of coverage .
but sukzessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got in .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today was still a primarily .
this is the printing and print shaped script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just a monkey where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re doing this .
this , of course , completely confuses us , because on the one hand , we see the new media , social media , facebook , etc . , etc .
the sister who did this brave action was put into an education camp .
with the total transparency , what the new thinking is , what &apos;s banging on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagna horse meat and cattle is no longer a cattle or other phenomena , which is , i just want to do that , and i don &apos;t want to do it .
and these two worlds are just banging together , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , it &apos;s a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
but now , not at the local level , but at a global level .
we understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think local ecologically , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , which , of course , can be intuitive , but also the total transparency .
as you knew in the village , who has what happens to whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this extension of our self through these mobile devices on a global scale .
whether it &apos;s that we know globally , and we &apos;re accumulating faster and faster and faster and better and better .
one day , she came out of sight on a armband of maos , and for that transmission , she had to go to a heavy job camp for seven years .
just as it happened before in the village .
in front of the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , what does it mean to us , what &apos;s natural for us , what is it that we may have lost , but what is also instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with what that means , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and when , of course , is a little intuitive , and how can i make an impact as a switch and make things so that they can use a , so they can be intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun , and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re going to be busy , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i &apos;m just going to look inside the self .
and what does it really look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively , and how does our channels of perception work , and how does the cognitive processing work work ?
the suffering of tibets can be inconvenient , but the dissolving mind of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deep to understand how it works .
so you really have to look at the details , if i want to make something usable or intuitive , which means at the core .
and you can see already that you have our seven senses , most people think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven of them , and i &apos;m sure , in the near future , there &apos;s still the next , awake sense , and as an extension of our self .
and to look at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand in the core , in the nature , when information becomes information , when do you know information , and from information , so that i know how to make things very intuitive , or naturally handhabable afterwards ?
and of course , how does design affect the perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper is , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and at the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice . do we want to live in a monochromatic world of the monotonies or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so a lot more natural , in a vessel , but i kind of see directly where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i say to someone , give me salt or pepper , he &apos;s going to think about the right first time , where &apos;s in it .
and the left is just intuitive , and i hope that no sugar is in there , and the salt is just about to give me a match .
but also , our perception of ourselves , as it fails us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that , as we move towards a thread , shaped , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a tied way of thinking , but that one day we would wake up from a dream , and forgotten that there were other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is starting to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and then , if i put a halboval on it , then suddenly we don &apos;t see just one more unit , which is circle , circle and , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is called the gesture law , or the gesture psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they have this most of the time in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape-law near , shaped law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget again .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things very intuitive , as well as possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting about vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humiliating to think that our species may have been around for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking back from the front .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
namely , they &apos;re projecting an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just projecting our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our sehearteers to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got this cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projected what you want to see .
that &apos;s where it is , and that comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , really , look again , and make sure that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on , and what kind of million-second areas of these things happen .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , we were drawn to the cult of the seeds , which was replacing the poetry of the shame through the prose of the priesthood and creating hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture of you .
that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve just described .
now everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
anybody see something ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i &apos;ve seen this , that this is a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on , now you &apos;re always seeing him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now , that you can &apos;t see a pattern in it , but i &apos;ve conditioned you in a very short period of time to see this dog over and over again in this devastated image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m going to propose to you that i see the dalmatina .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes that are going on in this , yes , gray is actually not , but here in this rosane mass , it &apos;s just going to happen .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well wait times in which i &apos;m going to do it by engaging someone with three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the next millennia .
that &apos;s what he has to do as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does five milliseconds take ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time you fall in love with .
that means , if you know that now , look at who you &apos;re looking at as long , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what can happen to you .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that means that this first impression happens at a rapid speed of how we perceive things .
if we ask these countless world cultures about the meaning of being human , they respond to 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , what we &apos;re paying attention to , and how we &apos;re sort of depositing ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it in a way .
of course , the designers are not just concerned with the subject of perceptions and neural processing , or cognitive processing , but primarily , of course , the subject of the human object relationship .
so how does a human being deal with certain things .
there are , once in a way , the practical functions , so formalaesthetic aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why is it that someone gives for a little bit of a day , where hardly anything in it , so horrendous sums of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be on the symbolic , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re dealing with as a creator , of course .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , behind , is usability .
usability always means , how can i quickly achieve a certain goal , or how can a user , in a certain context , achieve an effective , efficient and satisfying goal ?
that &apos;s what the norm says .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance of all people and gardens to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible to use friendly ?
can i use this directly , or i need a manual , or i need to have a corresponding training for it .
and less usable , or usable , is it .
that i just make this different and beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better to handle .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software that we &apos;ve just seen , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive , or not based on the b , the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not only since apple has been a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i just want to use technology to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , for example , are five times faster on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softrware , you need five hours and with this new kind of natural software , just an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal-jagd with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re going to be allowed to go home for probably four hours , but your employer , or someone , is going to fall into the same way that they &apos;re going to do it with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to achieve certain things as well .
so if we go back to the field of software , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where you took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have already been working with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not anymore zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
it made it much more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to form behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , i think that it &apos;s always unimportant for success , and the usability is becoming an application .
the canadian government has not always gone very well with the inuit , and over the 50 years in the order of the establishment of our rule , they &apos;ve been forced to go to settlements .
and then when i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m still faster and even more immediate .
but that also brings me back to the point , when do things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to put my little friend back here and see , what does that mean from the perspective of cognition , when is it really a little intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always kind of intuitive for us humans , if i have to think about it very little .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he &apos;s going to make it easy .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designers ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transmit existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use it as a creator .
that means that i can just transfer an intuitive human action model to a software and make the software much more usable .
and of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already shown it ?
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it &apos;s for more oriented , selective , informed , transformed .
it makes each of you all the time , but it makes it unconscious and kind of intuitive or partly instinctive .
the model is already exploded in the womb and is interculturally , so it works around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit osit is going to be about 50 to seven thousand times as much as we have ever been to activity , so in the sleep , what you &apos;ve noticed is that it &apos;s then less often punished than the day .
now i can orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer it into an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , sort of like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , an action jump .
and this is on a higher level of user friendship than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i &apos;m going to talk about this now , for example , in which i &apos;m going to be more oriented than oversight , selected as a choice , informed in the case , it &apos;s going to come up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transcend it , i can throw it somewhere , or send it to somebody , and so on .
then i can transfer the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we &apos;re capable of as an astonishingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was afraid of his life took him all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
now , everybody &apos;s eaten pies .
overview : now i &apos;m interacting with the object , so i can zoom out again , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , and i can now filter this up and say , just show me all the things with chocolate for example .
and all of a sudden , an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grasp things like the bits , touch , and they come up to me , is much more natural than when , over hierarchically organized websites , or other mechanisms , can make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to conclude , a and again , the clue , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you &apos;re a kid , as a baby , is that you care about what kind of divorce you have , right ? and the after your parents have allowed you to play and touch more or less in the pots , the more , in a way , the curiosity is , of course , being woven .
and the curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit doesn &apos;t have a fear of the cold , and they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and curious are , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically putting this whole environmental discussion , world underway , 40 years of club-of-rome in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point there .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , you give + you &apos;re giving off about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
you can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorph mollusk through the world &apos;s ocean .
the tracks of their slugs were originally made of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
if we don &apos;t actually take a phosphorus and abandon it .
and what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re dealing with something that &apos;s actually a sense of self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have for two years phosphorus , and now , through phosphorus mining around the world , a lot more uranium is being used in the environment than in all the nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium has been distributed on our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little less harmful .
the grandfather of the man was not afraid of the arctic night or the waking storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s like , if i said , shake your child , it &apos;s only three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weighs to the bathroom , our entire earth will become sooner , or later , a cemetery .
that &apos;s why thinking from the weights to the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he swallowed out , put his pants out of seafood , and he defeated his hand , and when the feces started to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30-pound tons per hectare , or the square meter .
that means that we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than reformed .
we can , of course , look at the landfill problem .
and everything is packaging or content .
for example , in the open stream , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of you in the forewind phase .
yeah ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed stores on the sides of the fecalian knife , and when it was completely frozen , he amazes a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these windmills ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs about the solid ingredients .
in the people about the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s what &apos;s happening , right ?
he had the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the skeleton of the dog , and improvised another dog , and he swapped over the ice sheets with the colored knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you talk to the people who , if you say that &apos;s better , you &apos;re not there , they &apos;re going to be refining and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , when you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on the earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one might have termites , in so far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means the ants weigh much more than us .
that &apos;s how you can do something from nothing .
and because they work much harder physically than we do , and because they &apos;re only three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are , what we really wanted to do , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , open stream has a program , up to 20 , 40 , you want to be a climber here , right ?
you can only be a climaneuver if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only opportunity .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yeah ?
one ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grim as trees , right ?
yeah ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem in trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
have you ever heard of some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grim as trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really have to go back in circles .
and so we &apos;re too many .
just about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit in april 1999 the complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means that we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-farming , there &apos;s no bioland , there &apos;s no natural progression , and how they all say , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it &apos;s certainly meaningful to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and the same way that the biosphere was widely deployed , it was done with the ethnosphere -- just at the greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve this at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we &apos;re doing agriculture in brazil where we &apos;re retreating the nutrients .
right away , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a night opf is still called a honey pot , kind of , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is because the city has only taken over , but never returned to the farmers .
so the cities had to grow more and more because the farmers had to go to the cities , and the cities had to get their nutrients further and further away .
it &apos;s an independent area . you control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yeah ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to have civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring back the nutrients .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting to eat as long as you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat them , not to the nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
in fact , the nice thing is , if you do that , you make agriculture , you create biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , you can get a farmer about a thousand and a half thousand dollars , and you can wait for the plant , chickens and pigs and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing is that the crime rate in the favelas is going back to over nine percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recovery with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just farm them .
that means that you go back to the crime rates .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over hundreds of fifty in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw a liter of alkilling in , and then the facility would be ruined over the years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do what you want to do , you write up , in germany , the best way to do it is to do it in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they don &apos;t open up , but maybe they can help the fraud a little bit .
because the fraud plant could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been using in holland now over three years .
the dutch government has explained that they &apos;re going to be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seven percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
these are six-plus countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you &apos;re not going to be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s to ask what the right thing is .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past , and for all of us , the dreams of these kids , like the dreams of our own children are becoming part of the geography of hope .
yeah ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you get 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s very effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
in the process .
this is not exactly correct , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is that we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
to ask , what is the right thing ?
not to burn the enlightenment mud a little bit better and overload it and lose all the materials in the burn system for cycles , but first to ask , how do you close circles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yeah ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with someone , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we think polemics is not persuasive , but we think that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website is getting 35 million hits a month .
yeah ?
that is , everything that counts in life is not to save , to avoid , to reduce .
all the environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
in every place you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities to live again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in the way that we think from north .
there &apos;s every footprint there .
156 nations send our tv channel .
when they walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the ground is going to die off the mosses , and the wind and the water is going to wash the ground away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands area .
not debt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yeah ?
but if i ask you , how are you going to do with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , you know , heartbreak , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so don &apos;t save , decrease , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , as people in the high bow are pouring out of the car like this .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of requadruple behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , please .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
no biologist , for example , would argue that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to die , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenarium in the field of biological diversity -- is almost not what we know as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re going to do a series of travels to the ethnosphere , where we &apos;re taking our audience to places of such cultural wonder , that they &apos;re going to be blown by the laws , and hopefully , one by one , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away from biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not all to be composable , of course .
a television or a washing machine , they only use it , they don &apos;t use it .
it &apos;s just the things that are disgusting , like the shoe , like the brakes , like the authorities , that have to be so that they &apos;re going to go to biological systems .
the things that are only used are going into technical systems .
but today , we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yeah ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for you to help this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yeah ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we &apos;re determining what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in there .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either locally or remove with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian , and the rubber can go to biological cycles , right ?
all of these are composable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for obesity , for nike , for hennes and for mauritz and for the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s water problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they &apos;re helping with , ask for people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve already changed the chairman of the board twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they &apos;re really going to stay deviated .
so , help me a little bit .
we see a lot of , a lot of gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can get seamlessly and continuously , switching , rearranging in any way .
but it goes .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s what goes on .
we can do things now that , if you &apos;re crushing , if you &apos;re broken , you can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct renamesysystem for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , which is made to go back to the cycle .
and that too , so in every store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , yes ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the wind again ?
if that &apos;s the garbage right now .
all over the place , these wind are all around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s on the front of the deponies , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go to biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , you can go back to cellulosic base , then you can plant hundreds of trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yeah ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the very beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be a climaneuver , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in an area of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s sort of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , sort of .
yeah ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra compound to cradle-to-cradle , where everybody can participate .
so not saving , reducing , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does it make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that the power of a system like this can confine is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment , and it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i &apos;m writing that as an interpreter , i &apos;m a translator , so in english , i understand .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of the words and the worker slope , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already from german to translate to english , more knowledge can require , once you get to poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we do to musicians with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have just the written notes .
you think that the composer has written everything in the notes that he &apos;s imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape , the fragrance of the flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is just to remember not to hear the saddling of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpret has to translate this inexplicit of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i &apos;d like to translate to what i otherwise think is musical , so interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally significant for me to translate the translation of translation .
so the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes , and to press the keyboards on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because these are just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the point of the letters is that you can only see the language .
so , for the learning process of music language , you need at least as long as spoken language .
now , there are also restraints , whether you learn it for the use of the harbor , just passively , or you can also speak actively , to the musical mother &apos;s language .
the work of the interpreter starts similar to a theater director .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you know , you &apos;re first exploring the recovery of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the pockets , the notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you compare comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of the text and no image .
the movements of writing it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were his life conditions like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in this .
you think of yourself in that time by reading , for example , contemporary images or literature .
but over time , as an interpret , you have a rich knowledge to play the composer that you play more and more often , and it makes you easier and easier to think in and feel .
the composer becomes more and more like the friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece is becoming more and more and more of my personal cause of playing it .
now , since the notes are everything other than an accurate record of the composer &apos;s appearance , but only a framework , i &apos;m now turning this framework to refill it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , with my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play out what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what you might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase gets a sense , because i feel it myself , because it jumps out of my own right now .
it has to be coherent for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been able to experience new .
how to experience a happy new day over and over and over again with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , as well as i do the same piece over and over again .
i got older again , a day that changes seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i &apos;m realizing the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this impacts me and all of this also affects my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s also wonderful when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , appropriate conversation .
you bring in a new idea , and that &apos;s the same way that it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have experienced the way the music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the way i &apos;m going to play at that moment .
i can &apos;t play as much as i can in 20 years today .
that &apos;s where i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and so on my palette of music sounds , i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , emotions and emotions than today .
sure , i &apos;m going to have some color pots out of it , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and long-term professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was too young so that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was fortunate enough to meet him very early , at three years old , and so i &apos;ve been on his classes at my school .
i was seventh when i went back to one of his classes , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a piece of paper .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballade was for me .
this is such a commissioned part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was smashing , and he was like , like that ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a piece .
he was already over the age of six .
well , with seventh , you have dreams , but you don &apos;t have significant memories .
i &apos;m going to play the piece again every few years , and it &apos;s changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because every time i read something new .
one example of this from a very different area : monet has painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of the day , in different light .
he translated the seroses in different ways , as he saw them , as they did at that moment on him .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-ray interpretation of a piece is the equivalent of this .
now , i &apos;m also older than chopin at the age of two and thirty , when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of multi-sized medium .
he &apos;s only lived ninety-nine years .
and it &apos;s important to me to look at the notes over and over again , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , you need about as long as spoken language .
a lot of the time , the music class is that you learn how to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the sounds to the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular piece of the guardian .
if all the fingers are moving in time , and the right way in the notes , then sound comes out that sound like music together .
if that happens freely , the student gets the next hard piece .
so , interpretation is hardly spoken in the beginning education .
all right , there &apos;s the front of the presto , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and loud , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know here .
but even if you implement these anxiety , it &apos;s still something technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added extra content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
which is that to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s what singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing because the parents didn &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not going to do it by themselves .
this is like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experience and idea of music , and then to get it to another possibility , about an instrument , to sound .
people who have never been singing have never felt immediately with their own body , what it &apos;s like to make a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal walls to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammerheads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm of the dance .
the permanent coverage of music today is not there .
you don &apos;t need to make music for yourself when it gets bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a lover .
every one of your own music is made platform when you &apos;re constantly sucked up by the outside with music .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
the question is , can you not sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to see if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal walls , right .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because that &apos;s what you can train .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained to them that they &apos;re intractable .
so i &apos;m asking , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
have you taken a second or third opinion of how to say it well today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still agree with them .
well , you can see , in all cases , no one has to be an exceptional candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really picks up these ideas to create these limitations for the available place on the screen .
i answer , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says it , i don &apos;t know if it tastes me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get to eat because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get into classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether it tastes you or not .
whether the music is too peppery to you or too sweet .
say what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want to have a little bit more spices there , or even taste some fine differences .
now why do i change from my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening to it ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when all of you were born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that it doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense -- that shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art you never look at doesn &apos;t have a force to work .
the food that &apos;s been cooked by a chef , or a chef , has to be eaten , and not only looked at or recepted .
so please listen , if a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults make active music , or at least hear active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , rather than a red one , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have evolved .
there was no piano at all right now as an instrument .
it was just not invented .
i think that the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sound of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the noises that the stream has had sound on the modern wing , which a barockle cembalo can &apos;t .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected from the time as an unplayful .
so the composers rely on us on the interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so you &apos;re going to hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the spirit .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area .
and also , what you would think of today in the spirit .
or what i &apos;m thinking about today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s going on ?
have you ever been neither ?
and how did that feel ?
shrimp .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
so when i come , with my little v , w piesel , and i &apos;m wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s. .
i say , ulf , what do you need to do with this big car ?
now , that loses half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you &apos;re working much less than i did .
why do i have to afford this little car ?
and then i immediately think that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to get such unpleasant feelings like neither to disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain to you something about this mechanism today , or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
and then , over the top of the nasa &apos;s arousal image .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then you toss rocks so he &apos;s going to give you the view .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easy to review that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not yourself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to get a livelihood to get a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , look , or get them to fall .
they need time .
let &apos;s get something else out now .
from that time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answers , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and if you laugh , you can see how important this lie is , and how much time you need to learn something that artists can share very well with us .
because artists have a disturbed relationship with lying .
the artist is sharing something with you , and most of all , this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is sharing with you in such a portrait , something that you &apos;re only familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , and it could not look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism that we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifestyle .
and not only in art , in volcanoes , in mythology , it appears again in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility of this real origin , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of this true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what it takes to understand under politically correctness , to bring over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us in deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
not only do we have in art , in folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischop of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the ancestry of man .
that the man should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband , and she said , that &apos;s probably not true what charles wrote .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it doesn &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without these livelihoods .
because we have this self-deception , this sense of being great , of the highest creature , not of such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that &apos;s still there , comparable to a stone , and whatever , which is unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other one is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at the university of washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we have to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to resolve itself and what the traces that it leaves behind that lead to something other than this great image of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she likes to like him especially because he has a tendency to get the right .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yeah , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . there &apos;s something wrong there .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification uses the word because , we should try to replace it with the word .
do that once , and then you experience the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that this is the real truth behind the arrival .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in firemen .
they &apos;re interested in firemen .
but there are no clubs that we can look around , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the total of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
he signed up .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and enjoy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers , the other people can only do when they lay fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence of the fact that in the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious one that jumps up immediately without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know are looking very different , so that you can sound much better for you and others .
that &apos;s how we create these words that we use in the language of the politically correct speech over and over again .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that if we create these kinds of views where we can go through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious way that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
so i want to show you two , maybe three examples .
the first example is predicting what many of you know , and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not a stopp of material , material nature .
and if you have people who are in front of you who have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , they think it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a mental framework on them , not out of matter , they &apos;re just meat and blood , something more stone , sort of built to the earth , decent , inherent , unimportant , yes .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and from this soul , you think that it &apos;s sort of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called the latin thylacine , which is present .
and then , when this air is pouring over the people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should think of them as something that is necessarily present to our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of you , then you can understand the logic that we experience this happiness of being able to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can use a three-set .
three phrases you still know from school .
now this is a three-set that describes us a logic .
the computer vision-algorithms have kept these pictures together so that they have the real room , where these pictures were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see here , elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related to each other .
this is the most difficult part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that &apos;s to lie so that you can just use this logic wrong .
in this three-set , three sentences are occurring .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i picked him up in particular .
a third sentence that &apos;s immediately appearing to people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say , who doesn &apos;t have a soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
this is where this logic comes out in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say the cancer is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the cancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the cancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can say everything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceptive consciousness immediately feels , and that &apos;s what you can do .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and predicted .
because in fact , we have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like he had something to do with it , so we can save our livelihoods .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to go straight through one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the punch behind this technology , which is photosynthetic technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue these things on different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the newspapers .
now , you have to have another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy , present .
that has to do with us going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanese esel is named .
the buridanese esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have this soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact act act in the middle between two identical hairs , it will hunt .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know which pile to go to .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
so the natural things are presented .
the same great forces with the opposite cursor signs resolve each other .
nothing happens at all .
it &apos;s only when you get a different example , so if it &apos;s going to make a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
automatically , he goes to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger piles that are going to attract you immediately , you also have to feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re also here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and sometimes he says , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , which was only achieved in the computer with images of flickr , and just put in notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get pictures of men in t-shirts and at the university site , and so on . each of these orange beaches represents a picture that was considered to be heard as this model .
now we can make the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper , almost every day , is what you find in this third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of will , can &apos;t be responsible for his actions and his claims , and so it &apos;s unsustainable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you have to first prove that there &apos;s something like freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of precursor is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , when you meet a person who you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr pictures , and they &apos;re all in spatial relationship with each other in this way .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit of political incorrect .
say , there &apos;s no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;re going to be one that , of course , has these predictors , and you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy realizing that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about this because he deceived them .
because he led them to a fiddle that he didn &apos;t stop on himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s only interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the way of shifting the evidence , you see the magnitude of the lie .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have an opportunity to feel that three-set in other people , you do , because you &apos;re going to make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember them in that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good day .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention it .
she &apos;s one of the creators here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk and give my idea .
i have to say , honestly , you got it with me , it was hard to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to imagine .
but , of course , it &apos;s the sum of very , very many ideas .
i probably hear that the two nice girls are still there , and i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve already started to study ninety-10 hundred and seventh , and i &apos;ve been studying machine engineering in carlsruh , technical high school , and today it &apos;s called , i think , kit .
and then i went to berlin in the middle of the eighth years , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t exist in carriage .
you know , i &apos;ve never believed i &apos;m going to end up working at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
they were all called kfa at the time , which was the jewish kfa .
they &apos;re called projectors today .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but a doofes like solar pendulum , which is sort of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collectively .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in cross-section , where you suspect the evil .
the place of terrorism , but that was called the &quot; wash electronics &quot; and made wind and sunenergy , and that &apos;s where i started in the middle of the eighth .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were there that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collectively for 11 years , which was fundamentally democratic .
we were 20 people .
when one said no , the vetoprinzip was a totally crushed thing , and i &apos;ve been doubling for 10 years , if i &apos;ve been doing my great engineering , maybe i &apos;m really going to go to a devastating thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window in your child .
it &apos;s busy with inflammation .
and that was really , very bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and this was a picture that i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marks were still , primarily , unemployment in the collective , of course , whether that &apos;s really the great thing to do .
and i then held it up to six and a half , and then together with friends , i became the co-founder of the company solon , which then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with spin-off q-cells .
a huge story of the following , but we have , of course , the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to go back and go back and dedicate to the next topic of the future , and that , of course , is , i think , the problem of our behavior , again , it &apos;s the same crazy thing , and that &apos;s going to start by saying , &quot; what &apos;s the jar , that &apos;s not going to do , we &apos;re talking about storage . &quot;
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
and i guess you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : all of them , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been flipped together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple crazy story , where could you use a memory of purpose today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a five-percent renewable energy share today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have any more ?
it just doesn &apos;t go technologically .
if you build more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they occupy our facility in berlin adlershard .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;m going to find some of the weird ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem at all .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our network is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated , it was two thousand 2006 , and the first contacts started with the island , but just did the math .
how big would you have to be , in fact , a battery to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe seven percent renewable .
and yeah , i &apos;ll go back to a slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electric power are being built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of you are covered by faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s going on is deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
it goes fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of three of these , two are always waited .
yeah , this is how one sees the load down there .
we also got very precise data .
and the wind plant , or the solar plant , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only eat in small amounts here .
our goal was just to say , okay .
the one is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to use the load so that they can map the bigger portion .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off this one .
that means , at the moment , you have to make the renewables , in a way , take over the entire web .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned here in some way .
no one in the world has done this before .
this is in a small style , so you can also use your rasians in the car over a little bit of a change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershard ?
that &apos;s going on .
but if you want to put together several of these interfaces , and they &apos;re supposed to build a network , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seven to nine percent renewables , and then here &apos;s another one , the last one , the last 10 , 20 percent renewables , and that &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you &apos;re doing it from batteries .
it &apos;s definitely going to be an energy carrier , and then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or table , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was recorded properly .
you have to go to a seasonal storage and match winter summer and not just day night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stink electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and wind and the sun , and the burden , and they came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you can get out of the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about four and a half cents .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , that &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent per year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulators .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would everything have to be done ?
have negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social shepherds .
we were only five people then to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is sort of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which the electric power company on the island , has meant that we think is great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric relations of the island at the scale of one to three .
that is , we &apos;ve been looking for the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from all -- from the entire collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected together .
here it is .
this is naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , she &apos;s been developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then she &apos;s licensed to the japanese .
you can see it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it &apos;s got a megawatt performance , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of the simulation technically .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that he &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , to actually simulate the entire dynamic behavior of this network , so in the halfway it looks like this , and the back is the big battery , and here &apos;s all the readers that we simulate the net with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers physics of cables , to sort of map the vibration behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptability .
it &apos;s a means that the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all these photographs are connected together , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , again , this one , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousand-nine , the hall was finished , until today , about two thousand , almost everything that was going on here between the single system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the theme of the battery and the theme of the web and everything in between .
you have to , of course , communicate to the battery , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this is that , in fact , on this island , you can basically take everything away from the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion of how to move in and forth at the moment , energy turn , how to do that , for example , on the island , we have five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge issue everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , ask about it , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without storage .
you get a model that comes from all over the earth .
you can go through &quot; n smart-grid , &quot; you can do it by building the nets , yes , you can definitely do it , you can hear the percentage , but you &apos;re never going to be able to get out of storage .
and this is the message , you know , the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off this one , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made out of noisy rotating masses of big power plants , where the wave is always rotating around europe .
we look in this web , and we see the fifty hertz , and if it &apos;s going to be nine hertz , we &apos;re going to catch a couple of valves , then again , a little bit of a steam goes in , and then we &apos;ll get back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible contracts .
if you tear it down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the web stable .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and over time , you can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , this rotating mass , then you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can take this big battery two milliseconds and turn it out .
so you can see , what are the huge speeds that are there .
and the message is , we have to get to these rotating masses , if we &apos;re kind of 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to reach it at all .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run simply means the power plant is running with to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , to build from the coal plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gastores , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make sure that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also bringing electrochemical memory to the web .
and luckily , now there are a lot of studies .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use , is growing and using it for the user to get bigger and bigger with the application .
and then , at that point , people always come and look at our experimentation on this , sort of our intest .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take a piece of the future there ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
don &apos;t go , you know , it &apos;s inflammation , you know , child toys , you know , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is precautionary .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is , in the last two years , i &apos;ve seen , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are shipped with metadata that another person has given in .
we &apos;ve got over 10 million funding projects now , even to climb 10 megawatt-battery now to the german web .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so , from that point of view , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autarke system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanes , they &apos;re doing autark , they have their own little web , and that has nothing to do with our connection and nothing to do with .
the question is very simple , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out anywhere in the world and brought to you , you &apos;re an island .
then they just use what &apos;s on the sun and the wind there , where they live .
and that &apos;s a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle , that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing , and in that way , the talk of premium cola , is that you can be a collective and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and have a vision .
if someone has taken the trouble of describing all these sacred and communicating who you are , my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , using photos of other people , and therefore making a kind of overwhelming model of social experience using other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist the los angeles times , one day went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who was playing on a violin , who had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because steves &apos;s article later became a book that was filmed , again , with robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassist who was at juilliard-conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically ended by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos;s book , or look at the film , so that you can understand not just the wonderful connection that came from these two men , but also how the music helped make this connection , and how it was , after all , the instrument when this game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came back to the stage to imagine me .
he was talking in a very hot and social sound about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton , and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the tangible passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , all of this is the immense rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that were not only preserved by overwhelmingly or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email that said that nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had been treated with electric shocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re so bad sometimes , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , walking around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in the same way that a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this irre flickers in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not because of opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his conditions , and that i could destroy his relationship with his violin , if i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardship .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was as if he was standing under the impact of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and courage .
and as through a miracle , he took his violin , and he started playing some clips of violin concerts , and then he asked me to end up : mendelson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
so we started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pecca .
and i realized that he had not only an encyclopedia knowledge of music , but also connected him to a very close personal relationship with it .
he was talking about her with a passion and an understanding that i would only know of my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , from this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a lover , trained , excellent , in juilliard , trained musician .
music is medicine . music is changing us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i get you right ? your software allows you to , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically interconnected ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
and that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that &apos;s in all of us , deep inside , our feelings , through our artistic lens , can form through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression is that we all get to us , and moving , inspired and united with us .
so what nathaniel did , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the dissolving power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m always going to play with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellists in a way .
yeah . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , well-tasting , good consistency , durable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , it was grown in aquakulture after the highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do a session about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unbelievable problem for our chefs has become . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tunas , the healing buts , the salmon fish , the slaughter fish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so i think or evil aquakulture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
many arguments about it . fishing plants are polluting the environment , most of you anyway , and you &apos;re inefficient , let &apos;s take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got 15 to one feeding .
that means that 15 pounds of wild fish are necessary to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the pictures .
not very sustainable .
doesn &apos;t taste very well either .
so here was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
on the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call him don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world .
this foraging process from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these pictures have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one thing ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . i set up .
and that night , i was in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day i called , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask for this .
now , i telephone with a few people in the company , and no one could give me a reasonable answer , until i finally got to telephone with the senior biologist .
like if you take a web search for pictures , where you type in sentences and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what the image is .
let &apos;s call him don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , remnant , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken on fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the manual , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all of your pictures ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous enjoyer and gutman .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because i swear to god , who &apos;s been smashing fish after this conversation after chicken .
this second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way you learn , the better you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i first eaten it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shameful white color .
then the scope of the semantic cross-section , and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cook him .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so well after it was cook ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish up in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s close to the coin of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . good luck wish .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by irrigating the country .
they built this complicated series of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make sure that it worked , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds in this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally transformed the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the canals .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see is fluid channels and these density , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there a long time ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts of charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to the kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we fought through the wetlands , and i cooked and sweat , and i have matsch to my knees , and miguel is quietly holding a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in the context of other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to create a few connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he is highlighting a rare glider .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more just about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the night before .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how does your fish taste so well ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
well , he goes on to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-replicating .
there &apos;s no food .
and of these 6,000 languages today , while we &apos;re sitting here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
the more of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a filmmaker had demanded a stage shift .
and we flew around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pinker flamingos , a literally pink carpet , as far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your herbs , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was totally confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you get your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we &apos;re losing 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
now , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds were more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all over europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last one you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eat the phytoplankton .
so the pinnacle the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : when our goal is to maximize the well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly by maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish up , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there .
they breed 240 kilometers away in a city where the ground quality is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line on the street of a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of a journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly back 240 miles at night ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an inconvenient premise for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as though i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it crushing .
it &apos;s this bold , coded taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried her in this restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t even look for fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was kidding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is for ourselves to do the things that maximize our common good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something happens into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to look at unreinforces . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any uncleaners . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their fish , a farm that measures their success on their predators &apos; success .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that doesn &apos;t have any inpurity , it drives enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that runs all the things that rivers now tend to lead them with themselves , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest relief .
and when it fought through the system , and this leaves the water clean as it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that &apos;s literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but also for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because this love story , as romantic as it is , is also inferior .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes well .
but for many people , that &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekmarkets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that are going to ensure the future of good food , somebody is standing up somewhere and saying , &quot; hey guys , i love pinke flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
one billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in distribution , not total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question , because it has determined the logic of our food system over the last 50 years .
add grain to plant feeders , pest control of monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time , the agricultural industry has simply asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the reason . it was the legislation . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a commercial in the wrap , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that enables this very production .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of absence , but because of abundant resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deep in our water supply , that no one would be in the sense of questioning it .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agrarian industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in it , and it &apos;s never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring , rather than using , businesses that grow extensively , rather than just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts in relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts in flavor .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to give you one thing today , it &apos;s that the total of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of their parts , and instead of thinking about information overlapping , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns are coming out , and we can see trends that wouldn &apos;t have otherwise become visible .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical death diagram after age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see a different pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle of this , people are the most active , and they &apos;re over here , most of the time .
i &apos;m going to give you a couple of examples of what makes us modern progress .
we can go one step further and rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , when we go on and we care about age , we say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and who &apos;s continuing to see that this is especially true in men .
so you realize that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover pictures of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to children . that means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . this is not a big one .
you can jump directly to a particular copy .
now , when i look at this , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on what all the spending is mentioned to me in lance armstrong .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything about biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom out , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look for or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s a little bit between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salad ressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
now i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i chose government , i realize that the wikipediakatoriums that are most covered with time magazine are &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipediaset .
this is just to see when you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see everybody together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essig that you could buy to make a large number of different salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come out of the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so now we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we surf on the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you what else could be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just going to show you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump directly to a specific segment .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in in my course in a particular time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and again , if i go out and look at everything , i can rearrange my course , maybe , after my search past , and here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here to bing , or here to live labs .
and from here , i can go into the page and call it back up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the entire picture bigger than the sum of the data .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a flood .
we &apos;re talking about the escape of information overload .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on the head , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and see patterns that would have otherwise remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then this data trap , maybe a new source of information is going to make sense .
and then they go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , stronger . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereos .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , then maybe we can even pull out wisdom from it .
i &apos;ll stop with that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a polite portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i went to school with the bus , one hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science-fiction book that led my mind to other worlds , and in a narrative , my deep in me , unseen curiosity .
and this curiosity also turned out that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would travel through the forests and collect &quot; samples , frogs and snakes and bugs and dough water , and take everything home and look under the microscope .
i was totally excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the boundaries of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because at the time , in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereos from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games , nor that oversaturation with computer-generated films , or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the pictures in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as a child , we took the description of the author and we projected it to the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was to draw and paint by aliens , alien worlds , robots , spaceships and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was caught all the time by the teacher , as i hid , behind the textbook , painted around .
creativity had to sort of get out .
and something interesting happened to me , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
certainly , i would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , and it seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all that i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself go of that .
i eradicated my father until he finally made a diving school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been stripped , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in diving boats .
and i learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat ocean , is as rich as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas , the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , bright human imagination .
until today , i feel deep awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love for the ocean is holding , with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to see a profession as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed to be the best way to tell my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
when i was a kid , i always drew comic books and so on .
so films were the way to bring pictures and stories together . that &apos;s what fit .
of course , the stories i was looking for were from the science-fiction area : terminator , &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at abyss , i could connect my preferences to the underwater world and diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions were sort of flowing away .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we attacked computer-generated animation , cg , back .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surface-figure to ever see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t make any money , and he just played his production cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , we don &apos;t know how to distinguish advanced technology and magic from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , it &apos;s got to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy from liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect was going to happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
from those two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at that time called &quot; digital domain . &quot;
the basic idea of this company was to jump over the phase of analogous processes with optical printers and so on and start with digital productions .
so we did , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the crew and the more crew design -- which we actually started the company for -- we were starting to get too slow .
i had written this piece of &quot; avatar , &quot; which should shoot the measurements in visual effects and computer-generated effects in all new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made using cg , and the main characters should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was very , very backward , and the people in my company told me that we were not yet able to do that .
so i shifted that , and i made this other movie about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic extent , a passionate movie .
but in secret , i really wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , to be one of the last of your people who speak your language , have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced you by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketer . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but that goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
so we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , and looked at the real titanic through a bulleye .
it wasn &apos;t a movie , it wasn &apos;t a hd , it was real .
so , that really blew me up .
these days are over .
and the preparation for this was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much this deep-sea , a space mission looked like .
well , they were also high-tech and enabled extensive planning .
you go up into this capsule , then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue if you don &apos;t create it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science-fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was quite obsessed with studying the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then make a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and for the science at the time when we saw them , there were no words at all .
so that really blew me up , and i wanted to do more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we went to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experience .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped up a fiber glass cable .
our intention was to go in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it , so we developed the technology necessary .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the cover of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are very similar to these breeds , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gear of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just doing it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically present within the shipwreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjí-vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner , i &apos;ve always known what was going to happen in the light bulb of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over the movie for months when we turned the movie .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize that this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars , and so you can put your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really immensely profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore something , or do other things , in all sorts of post-humans to the future scenarios that i can think of as a science-fiction fan .
so after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we saw down there , like these deep-sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of alien animals , but these are on earth .
my favorite one is the one in the middle -- mp3 playful , nas-haar trimmer and crème brélée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight based system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degrees celsius that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was the science-fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa , and sit in the nasa expertise council , and they &apos;re planning real space missions , and they &apos;re going to russia , and they &apos;re going through the biomedical protocol in front of the mission , and they &apos;re going to go to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end , it turned out that i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them with me , and i hired them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , take samples and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually science , more specifically , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science-fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation in reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business until now , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think that a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t know much about leadership until i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going on ? &quot;
these stupid films don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . no trace .
everybody thinks i was walking away between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask this question .
you &apos;re going to do it for the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that &apos;s there . you &apos;re going to do it for the discoverable way , and because of the strange connection that comes from a small group of people forming a team .
because we did all this with just 10 to 12 people who worked together for years , sometimes we were in the lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you can see that the most important thing is the kind of attention that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anybody else .
when you go back to the country and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the weakness , and the whole technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on lake , &quot; you can &apos;t explain the other one . that &apos;s like the police or the soldiers who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to turn my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve the respect in the opposite of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and for a period of four and a half years , we became a real family .
so my way of making films changed , completely .
there were people who thought that we would have been doing these oceans really well and transporting on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a fundamental way of doing my job , the actual process that changed in the outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what have we learned ?
i think the first one is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the contemplation of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
to me , young filmmakers come to say , &quot; give me a advice about how i can do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t restrict yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get for you . don &apos;t do it to you , don &apos;t bet against yourself , but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has a favorite phrase : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a trusting experience .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded was ever accepted without risk .
you have to be willing to take these risks .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to give you on the way . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a little bit surprising , because my full-time work at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we have to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years , we &apos;re going to rain too much or too little , and things are going to change the way that their fragile environment can &apos;t stop .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
also , the energy cycle for you is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , to reduce poverty , energy would be far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
the coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and so we have refrigerators , climate conditioning , we can make modern materials , and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly man dies , and takes the last silver of an old language with him .
in other aspects of life , which are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s halve the price -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the co2 equation is actually pretty clear .
they summarize the exhausted co2 that leads to temperature increases , and that temperature increases has some very negative implications : effects on the weather and maybe worse , the indirect conclusion that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes and therefore collapse whole systems .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 increase and the resulting temperature change , and where their other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to increase .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a three-foot truck that has to go under a three-meter bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go all the way down to zero .
well , we &apos;re going to spend a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons of carbon dioxide .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we have to make changes that go down to zero .
it &apos;s gone all the time .
just different economic changes have influenced it at all , and we have to go from rapid increase to zero reduction to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , from the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor and think about how we get it to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 percent to 15 percent , but at the moment we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things , and poverty reduction means making these services accessible to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make a dispute and use less , but on average , that number will go up every year , and therefore more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so that you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
now , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the house building , there are many services whose energy supply some of the individual services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playroom for improvement is very much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , maybe we &apos;ll get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of whether you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today is emitting co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually , there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a particular date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually , you &apos;re just kind of wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitoes , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i noticed .
i decided that leaving fireflies would be my environmental contribution to this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told that they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of game solutions like this , but they &apos;re all not doing a lot .
we need solutions , either one or two that has a unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions in which people are looking for it , i really see only five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if you do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they shy us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to catch all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after the burn , liquid under pressure , and then somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level , 80 percent level , but get it to 100 percent of the time , and get an agreement on co2 , is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the salmon poll .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times larger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a hard nose .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that may be solved , and that &apos;s why you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies create dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you say , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you &apos;re talking about many square kilometers , a thousand times more surface than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t seem all day , it doesn &apos;t seem every day , and it doesn &apos;t seem to be constantly blowing the wind .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you have to deal with the risk that the energy is coming from where else .
and there &apos;s a problem with laughter .
and to show the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all sorts of batteries that are made : the ones for cars , computers , cell phones , pocket lamps , for everything . and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve done with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i &apos;ve found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could be less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that &apos;s going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches right now .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you &apos;re trying to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not her . &quot;
if you want to rely on it by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get to the target ?
what we need is a lot of companies that work on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people in the ted group who are already engaged there .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies doing great things and interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , maybe surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know that some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; if the world weren &apos;t a better place , if we all were to speak a language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let &apos;s have this language be yoruba . let them be canadian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and most likely is sick , and therefore not in the best constitution to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means , instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about this for a long time , but you &apos;ve never been able to reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since then there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it &apos;s working .
and because you burn this 99 percent , the cost is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel fuel .
instead of breaking your head over it , you just burn it . a great thing .
the uranium is gradually used , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a &quot; walking wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of an orange in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s being burned today , so it &apos;s called the user-consumed uranium .
this is the u.s. drive for hundreds of years .
and if you film ocean water cheap and easy , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s lifetime .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to do , and then we talk about the interactions .
many are talking about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise for us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully wallows and cement will be clean .
so , to reach this 80 percent , the developed countries , including countries like china , have to completely reframe their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we &apos;re using the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s very important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
when we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency to bring reducing , the less we emitt , the less the co2 is going to be , and the more the temperature will be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we &apos;re doing , which are not completely leading to the big reductions , just the same , or even less important than the other ones that are the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with complete gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
al gore &apos;s book , &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework in which this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just give me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose this wish , which is , halfway , without co2 , i &apos;ll find this wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get this wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term thinking will be terrible , between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of the life of these two billion will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of the choice of how to show this slide .
so what do we have to do ?
what kind of action do i appeal to ?
we need to use for more research funding .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous funds that are spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market rice , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we have to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : in order to do the simulation on a supercomputer , get all the big scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we need only a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure that it works reasonably , you &apos;re just in the 1000s million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor to find more billions , the regularians and the place that actually builds the first one .
as soon as the first one is done , when it goes like promises , it &apos;s all very clear , because the economy , the energy density is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
in order to understand this right : this means building deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this used uranium , and then the process starts to go up and go down ?
bg : exactly . today you have to refill the reactor , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they buried without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there , and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re so often reinventing ourselves as much as we want .
a nuclear reactor , which even provides a solution to the waste .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you can burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we put in our fills , and it &apos;s dramatically reduced to the waste volume during this process .
but while they talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the greatest interest in making this happen ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t set up a place yet , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting revelation rules for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; in the name . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variation of one thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built this , so everybody who has done a quick reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and likelihood to really bring this into life ?
bg : now we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then we have 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything is going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , it could be easy to hold .
and luckily , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds that , just as their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be best if you could do it several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
so , the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , that &apos;s a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor , which seems a little hard , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as one , say , a carbon molecule , and so if you can deal with the problems , and that &apos;s mainly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , so the impact on the country and other things , almost in a league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what then ?
do we have to take emergency measures to try to keep the earth temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re in front of a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research facility called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope that we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all , because you might be doing it lazy , so you keep eating , because you know that you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem in front of you , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have this in case things get faster , or this innovation takes longer than we expect .
climaskeptists : do you have one or two sentences for those to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative impacts that have to do with the clouds that are changing things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all sorts of urgent problems to invest in something that you have later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can do it economically , and at the same time , the co2 is eliminating , then the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it , i wish it &apos;s not emitting co2 , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be their answer to the lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the reduction of poverty , the malaria , and so on , that there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money on it , while there are better things that we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
other things should not suffer .
you get to big sums of money , and here &apos;s a reasonable contradiction of people , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you &apos;re trying to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short of a cost-breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris that you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can mimic .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing our lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do before .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
now his new stomach is , &quot; why isn &apos;t the research going to be talking about ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now bringing the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish is going to be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter of tape , about a foot of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep impressions into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in the task .
you &apos;re talking about it , you &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and put spaghetti out .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of growing structures all the time .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow and they put it on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; ! admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy asking yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a series of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they produce really drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have a lot more &quot; ta-da &quot; and under the best are fresh graduates of the kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , not only did they produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does this come from ? why ? what about them ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what children are doing differently is they &apos;re starting with the marshmallow and building prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have the opportunity to repair bust prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get instant feedback , which works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is central -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most people is about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are doing a little bit more , but not a lot , children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all polling questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one foot is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-empowering geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is this going on ?
because they have special skills of the process accompanion .
you run the process , you understand it .
and that team , which is regulating and looking at the work , will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you , and not get a good note in my course .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now i tried something exciting .
i thought , let &apos;s take the poker &apos;s application .
so i offered a $ 100,000 price of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody had built a two-inch construction , he would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , they should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
so what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so from the same , bad team , one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- to the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic position , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world , how people optimize and refine the system .
there &apos;s also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it requires that we &apos;re all putting our senses on the task , and that we &apos;re using our thinking optimal , like our emotions and our doing , in the challenge that we have .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a ta-da moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about that the wireless plan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and this is a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that you &apos;re sort of moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re doing : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the far .
so what it means is to make this incredible freedom of choice we have in terms of work , again and again , whether we should or not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death row .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they have reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have threatened just one generation ago , hardly yet .
we can look at our kids playing football , and we have our cell phone on the one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphill , tube , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method to try things out is to see if it works , change it if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all the good news , because there are some other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world are going to bed every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastation this world deeply .
drinking water , urgent land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
and even though they &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re watching our child mutilating a football game , we &apos;re also wondering , &quot; should i accept this call ?
so the question is , can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world with energy that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as urgent as now , never before .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can do today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet , i really think that we have to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been fighting progress , where we &apos;ve been doing these things , more fronts than now .
people are bouncing in their beliefs , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion ; even a right to their opinion about progress .
should i answer this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; school , they don &apos;t have them .
and i took a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccination for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come up with resistance to the resistance of what is at the end of the most effective intervention in human health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically modified food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they believed that molecules in a certain way instead of shooting around a random way was a way of taking over the field of nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly your experience of the football game of your child is very different than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we rich , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but these papers made me worried , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and eventually i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were careful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that made me so mess .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about twenty .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with little leadership , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , so there are reasons for this , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just call a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we &apos;re now living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen and hopefully never seen it again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the massage , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very frightening .
in fact , studies were conducted to see if that was true .
in fact , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government agency that gives us data , and i understand that , i think , we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic , because of this fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccines are falling for masers .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened is that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has masses ?
has a single one in the audience ever seen anybody die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
this is a lot of deaths from masers , 20 per hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same thing .
and this is something that we need to learn , very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst minds of humanity .
no fear , no jellyfish , no child paralysis , no puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotaviral vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000-year , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , apart from paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public audience , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
take them away , reverse the diseases , horrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitary of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said she thinks i &apos;m a little bit too shrimp .
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos went to an airplane this morning , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles right now , and they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these amazing ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to hook ourselves in lies . we love that .
have you taken all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidum that helps you on the springs .
i know you &apos;ve done this because half the americans do this every day .
all these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find out that they &apos;re useless .
the data is all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i agree with you all .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we should not . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed rather than free .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazing to be cold and soul to ourselves who can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from this , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all sorts of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what is it that you care about ? let people do what you want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options that you can choose , people have a very hard time deciding .
and you know what ? you &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health , who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any cancer-packaging , who wants to treat his patients with caffes .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people , because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other one of these diseases .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investments in volunteer aging .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice scorn , every branch of petersilence , every rosensus , has been changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarin in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more precise , and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investing in vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically modified food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is , too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want a huge field with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was every 10 investment fund that the employer was offering , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid to have a real sack , and it keeps millions of people from blowing up .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than at the moment . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . embarrassing .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they &apos;re offering 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees than if they were just offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it doesn &apos;t have nutrients , it doesn &apos;t have a protein , and scientists are building all this in it .
and then people could eat the food , and they wouldn &apos;t be blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now there are some of us who sort of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is a choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide what to choose to put it up in the morning .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to shoot genes around ?
it &apos;s not about shooting genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for greater food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s about to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do that , we &apos;re guilty of something that we don &apos;t want to be guilty about , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and go into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and of course , tomorrow never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
at the moment , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we go into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , this is something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
for some time , i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect , and it may seem odd that a magician is interested in it , unless you think of it as me , &quot; a deception that becomes something real , if someone believes hard enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s just because the person thinks what happens to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes hard enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to the retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss big investment boats of their employers .
a deception becomes a real thing because someone perceives it that way .
in order to understand each other , i &apos;d like to show you a very basic , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s at least since the 1950s in every magic book for children .
i myself learned him from the cub scout magic from the pfadfinder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;m going to explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study is my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my lap .
i shoot my sleeves back .
through the non-participation , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year from the employer who would have been happy to multiply their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
in this way , you can see that , at no time , anything is moving , and as long as i &apos;m expressing here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so stuck in his place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no tricky , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
it works like this .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i &apos;m going to close my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i &apos;m holding my wrist is because that &apos;s the real secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it moving from the back , this finger here , my timeline finger , just from where he was , into a position where he was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but it &apos;s seen as a group .
but that &apos;s not what it &apos;s all about . and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my timeline finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it will be hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick with your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or something , i read a study that really blew me up .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so this was an amazing thing for me .
because it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill , which has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you change these blue dyes and you put a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really made me flip out .
but it turns out that this is not all yet .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any shape .
a colored capsule , which is at one end yellow and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dose is also a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . sorry .
but the key thing is ...
that the doses play a role as well .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salad address .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in the head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it , which is a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when it comes to the thing .
this is an eight-inch helicopter . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize you a little bit first .
so this is the effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less happy with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my flesh . it &apos;s not damian &apos;s specialized meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and drive it through it , until it comes back to the other side .
if you &apos;re going to get bad -- if you &apos;re going to fall in a little bit -- i &apos;ve introduced this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost oblivious .
so i propose that if you &apos;re going to get bad , you &apos;re going to look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away , if you like .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little bit of one .
i &apos;m really sorry . is it crazy ?
and just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , it &apos;s like this again .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the messertrick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid , and it &apos;s going through the skin , just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see this . &quot;
for example , take this child of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they came up mythologically from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is informed by the great selection of different salad resses , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salad ressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is that formal alternative led you to regret the decision , and that regret seems negative to the satisfaction that you made by your decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you a little bit from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn this around .
sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see this on the video , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , it would -- you see , here &apos;s a hole and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing , that &apos;s disappointing for the choice they make .
but i think in this frame here , and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a couple more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve got some people counting the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up to about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive drops that are sort of impossible to think about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive drops .
secondly , what economists call the oppertunity cost .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a resistance to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word of happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but the whole thing is that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a variation of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it to .
and then he added , really , quite emotionally , that has ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it ruined was the memories of experience .
he had had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two types of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past again , but basically only has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor asks -- you know , when the doctor asks , &quot; is it going to hurt if i &apos;m going to take you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the reminder self is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s simply to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you &apos;re excluding , that makes you less happy with the alternatives you &apos;ve chosen .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and changing the two is part of the misery of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
not only do we tell stories when we get to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experience is a story .
and let them start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who are undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful today , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the mirrors were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is this clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the ones that were worse was where the pain was at the very end of his peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also a lot later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than she was for b in the memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the point of view of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in without shaking it too much .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but just a little bit and much less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve done that the memory of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hampton .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
and what a story is about is the outbreaks , the major moments and the ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave behind .
most of you are completely ignored by remembering yourself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , they kind of get the impression that they should count that what &apos;s happening during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the transition with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory itself .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a reminder of a living self , and time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . they have it all for themselves .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one who makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two reflections in two different surgeons , and decides which one to choose , then the one who chooses the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the living self has no voice in this choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experience . we choose between memories of experience .
and even if we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predictable memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory self , and you can think of the memory itself as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little bit hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we toss from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors blue and green , because the celestial scene is equated to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a couple of years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;d ever had , and i think of it in relation to how many times i think of other vacation .
and i probably have , from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the lost mind to the weight that we give experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know that at the end of the vacation , all of your pictures are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think about it in the sense of memories , you could get a different answer .
why we &apos;re looking for the vacation that we &apos;re looking for is a problem that we &apos;re looking for with a choice between the two species of self .
well , the two types of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per person .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
which are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park in front of my house . &quot;
that &apos;s not how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or happy the person is when this person thinks about their lives .
very different terms .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mash the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being , who have long massed the exploration of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the remembering self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and their experience , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two species of self .
and the main lesson we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy he lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he has missed the possibility of having a great parking lot over the day .
what that means is that if you met someone and you were to tell them , oh , your father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know about his size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that someone has ordered his life as eight on a scale of 10 , you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his own living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what the happiness of the happiness self is .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being happy with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two species of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs down the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask this question , you think that people in california have to be happier if you live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is that if you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thought self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could go to california at the end .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who go to california in the hope of getting happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more choices there are for choice , the more attractive properties of this choice are considered in the oppertunity cost .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how hard it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we got to the phone a couple of weeks ago , they said to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup survey .
is this something that you can share with us , because you have a couple of minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we had absolutely not expected to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how emotions varied with income .
and it turns out that among one income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a 600,000 dollars a year of income .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they &apos;re getting increasingly less happy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i &apos;ve rarely seen so flat lines .
what happens is obvious that money doesn &apos;t get you an experience happiness , but that lack of money is certainly getting you miserable , and we can measure this misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make the happier you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american desire , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this fund seriously , i mean , it seems to put everything on their head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , that the country would generally take a fund like the seriously and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
the recognition is going to be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life rating , so we need to have this discussion pretty soon .
how you can increase happiness very differently depends on how you think and whether you think about the memory of yourself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this will , i think , be part of the national statistic in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i &apos;m designing computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
right now , we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one important thing he does is , whenever you decide for one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you may think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time , if you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase this time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours of play a week .
this may first seem a little bit disgusting , so i &apos;ll repeat it so that if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we have to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i mean it really seriously .
why ? this picture is quite precisely why i believe that games are so vital for the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language , and a marriage prescription is called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings of play , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also the very first concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you can see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows are surprising .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . prima . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so exquisite that they didn &apos;t even know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they do it , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of doing this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is right in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of factors of problem-solvers around the world , if we take the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are on the verge of all the adversaries on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face , and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yes ? ok .
this is me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we &apos;re better in games than in real life .
this is a problem that a lot of players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in play .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , although that &apos;s part of it .
we get more in play worlds . i mean well in relation to motivation to doing something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think a lot of us are turning into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you could not just do anything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve noticed some things that make the epic victory possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a worldwide mission , instantly .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that &apos;s perfectly adapted to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always on the edge of your skill , so you have to get into it , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you &apos;re not sitting around and you &apos;re twisting . there &apos;s always a very important thing to do .
and there &apos;s a lot of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to close your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that if you &apos;re in a fingertip , you &apos;re going to have a staff who &apos;s going to be ready .
also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there were only jeans of a way , and they bought them , and they adapted them poorly , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they were wearing them long enough , and they had often washed enough , they started to feel ok .
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; high &quot; and &quot; + one strength &quot; or &quot; + one intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have to talk about + one and + one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like the world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand at any time on the edge of an epic victory that we &apos;d rather spend all our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
it &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of the old wearing , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have a couple of jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we &apos;re spending with play , it just makes sense when you think of the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , because it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that has recently been published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young man of today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total time that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the degree of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education path on which young people learn as well as what it means to be a good player , as anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the seller said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or long ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any kind of subject to the 21st year , we &apos;re going to become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting as good at doing whatever , like the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what are the players that are really good at ? &quot;
because if we could find that out , we would have basically never been able to have any human potential before .
so many people now in the world who spend at least one hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to wash buttons or friction ? stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , rather than the broadband internet , so that players can play online all over the world , especially in india , china , brazil .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , imagine this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and that it &apos;s always worth trying to do it , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters of dense social nets in spiders .
do you want jeans with holes ?
there are a lot of interesting studies that show that we people like more after playing with them , even if they &apos;ve defeated us .
the reason for this is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody is spending time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal , and we &apos;re going to stay with the game .
so the interplay allows you to grow bonds , trust and one another .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft-player plays 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we &apos;re relaxing or doing nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always willing to work hard when they get the right job .
you want to cut a long way down , badly , blah blah , blah , blah , &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe of the planetary extent of the world .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in the right light , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 treaties , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve collected more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than about any other topic in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as a single , they can change the world .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , the strange thing about these big houses , which , because of the mischiefs , six or seven languages , is that you never hear anybody learning a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a folk scientist .
his work is great . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can do more in online worlds than in real life .
you can make more powerful social bonds in games than in real life , and you can get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years back .
there are these ancient cubes , from sheep sketches . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep needed .
and these were , in a way , the first of people developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , more accurate games , in the kingdom , were invented lydics during a famine .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
there was a such a big famine that the king of lydics decided to be a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game and agreed a national strategy , and on one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity , that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then , the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next .
in the same way , i think , we &apos;re going to play games today .
we &apos;re putting in games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get out of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to use a last game of cube .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the victims were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left poetry , and they went to the search for a new home , and they left as many people as there was food to survive , and they looked for the rest of the area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrusers , who later formed the roman empire , have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos;s crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine could explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people through play by flipping into games for 18 years , and then having this insight and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the entire civilization .
so , we can .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time of the world of warcraft series , which was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should get over the fact that half of us spend an hour playing games every day , until we &apos;ve solved the real world problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems of the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s the question i &apos;ve dedicated my work to the future in the last few years .
the reason that i felt worse , with all these available opportunities , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empower people to put this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you three games very briefly that i designed to try and create people &apos;s epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in a way .
we tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing them for the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you &apos;re going to go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have kept in the game of common habits .
so for the next world &apos;s game , we have a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute of the future .
so the starting point is that the computation of a supercomputer is that people only have 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global extinction system , &quot; of course .
when they came to 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we almost designed a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream-team , &quot; you have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-beach fling , and only together , you can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future of energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that you can read when you google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march three , and it &apos;s a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you close the game , from the world bank , you get the award of &quot; social change , &quot; graduation in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities all over sub-saharan africa and inviting them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic . we have &quot; level up &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from being able to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree with me that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a huge meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make close social nets , urgency optimism , and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing major games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
if i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure that two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all sorts of games .
so i say , let &apos;s start the world changing games !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago when i wrote a article for italian wired .
i was always ready to write my synonymous dictionary , but i was done with the process of writing , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked for the word &quot; disabled &quot; in my life , which really means the word &quot; disabled .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , extinct , mutilated , wobbled , dedicated , stored , separated , cut , chosen , impotent , capped , paralyzed , paralyzed , gehandicapt senil , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , restored , done , broken , counted , injured , injured and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh first , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; oriented , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t go on , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting myself after this out-of-the-box , and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a frantic , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be quite old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early 1980s , when i was just starting elementary school , and starting to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god , i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives , inevitably , increase people &apos;s expectations about how well these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this assignment seriously , i would have been born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m being celebrated for the odds and adventures i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expected to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this contract .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms are shaking me &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of an escape has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking out loud can also manifest .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
now , just to say that a human being is mindless than being a child could be enough to constrain them , and to impose them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open up doors to you ?
one person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . a italo american , whose name you can think of , most americans couldn &apos;t correct , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was created for the work with kids just like this .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual exercises with these thickness , elastic bars -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles . and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine that i even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. and so i tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he observed me in one of my exercises -- these practices were just tired and tired -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear down one day of these benches .
no one in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you all don &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick from dr. p. , so i do the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the idea that the richest five year-old girls in the clinic in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as being one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethic people .
this is just one example of how adults in power positions can incorporate the imagination of a child .
but as the examples of the synonym dictionaries have already been quoted , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish to do : to allow anyone to think of themselves as powerful people .
our language is based on the social changes that have been caused by a technological change in many cases .
and of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities , and to develop beyond the limits that have given them their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , give people a sense of identity , define themselves in their own way , and orient to groups that they &apos;re looking for themselves around the world .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something very special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our greatest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people always ask me to tell you how to deal with authenticity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this phrase has never adapted for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this is a set of skills that live on the idea that success or happiness depends on solving a challenge , without being shaped by the experience that i &apos;ve had , as if my life had been so successful , because i &apos;ve been able to refuse the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic prosthetic , or whatever people can perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to enhance to get better with our lives .
advertisers are just our lives .
and i tend to think of adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to put the impact in any case , or the severe of the fight of a human being .
there are skills in life and challenges , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is going to deal with it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with adversity or not , but how we can deal with it .
so we &apos;re not only responsible for keeping the people that we love from fate strikes , but we prepare them to get good with it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that everything used to be better than anything worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : to one , the medical fact , to be amputated , and to the other , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly saying that it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who are at heart , and to give them the cold , hard truth about their medical projections , or even give them a forecast for the quality of life that they expect , we have to watch that we don &apos;t have the foundations of someone being disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just looking at what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for each one of them , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t fully treat a human being , and not fully perceive and acknowledge all its forces and all its possibilities , we create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a human being who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all sorts of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventor spirit .
we should not stop or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we go to the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds .
i think it &apos;s a little bit more about realizing that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome advertisers , but that we &apos;re open to embrace them , to put them on the shelf , to use a fight term , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we are wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is that things are as good as you expect them .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of adversaries as something natural , coherent and useful , and we &apos;re not so embarrassed by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed to something very true in the human character .
i would write it this way : not the most powerful of its species survives , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflict comes out of creativity .
not just from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to move through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of human beings .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut from when we &apos;re really checked out of .
maybe that &apos;s exactly the sense of adversity , a sense of iteration , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give a new meaning to adversity that goes beyond difficult times .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can see adversity as a change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal one .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to learn this poor , gray person if there were really them ?
i don &apos;t think so much .
it would be great if we could take this paradigm of normality to another one of the possibilities , or the strength , to even formulate it a little bit more dangerous , exchange it , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolen found that we &apos;ve always asked people to be useful and contribute from the members of our society .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , have contributed older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that may have happened because the life experience of these people &apos;s survival was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what all of you have come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the town where i grew up in a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a shot tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; sorry , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- which i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man i only knew from my mother &apos;s narratives about this day , because , of course , i was very typical , two weeks late on my birthday .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born with no legs , and my feet had been looking for them , and i had just a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the winner , this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to say to your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
and what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspapers in my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a spelling competition in the second grade , whether i &apos;d been in the parade with the pearl finders , whether i &apos;d had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he would use these cuts to teach his students , medical students from the hneman medical school and hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical that factor can be to the quality of a human being .
and dr. kean continued to tell me , he said , &quot; i learned that if you don &apos;t get a lot of other things , and even if you get a little bit of support , if you leave kids with yourself , then kids can do a lot . &quot;
look , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me , at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prostheses against legs of meat and bones , i would not have hesitated a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me this today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not despite these experiences .
and maybe this change could happen , because i &apos;ve met so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who wanted to constrain me , or have an idea .
you see , it really takes only one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest your forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so reception -- if you can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to create something that is in one way to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who had been peaceful in 1958 .
but leaving is not always a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed in all schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided after grades .
and the a students are tested harder , getting the better teachers and so on .
they then have given over a three-month period of time to students with a &quot; sufficiently &quot; the note &quot; very good , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that reverse the student was told that they were just enough .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had failed school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t locked in .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-on-one students , and the students are sufficient with the note , and so they taught them something , and they treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind , a mind that was broken , has no hope . he finds nothing more beautiful . he lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human mind to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around them to find themselves beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem that was written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the boats , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , he says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose , through a few changes in your genes , i said that you could have a better memory -- more precise , more accurate and faster .
or want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask you why , who is responsible ?
do you want to become more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has been looking for more and more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s also so clear that the answer to the question is , you .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to read that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor to the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the lit of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk is going to make sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it good for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this image , i put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the species that exist at the top of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms , they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment of fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in that time period , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and use the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetic ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferent from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that every one of us in our gut is doing more bacteria than it &apos;s leading cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , you think , if antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish for without any effort on their side .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestive nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we meant to be something else -- something that might even be more adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first indication of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just short measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke , and human life , a little notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment of this talk , so i hope d has liked it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology classes .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i realized something very fundamental : in most ways , the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is continued in both dead cells .
but at the time , when multi-celled organisms emerged , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and more importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body is degraded .
in fact , you might say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies occurs in evolution at the same time as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns who introduced his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointing because their standards are so high , and then , if you have to explain these experiences to themselves , think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him , there &apos;s a beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradicting , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about passing the genome to the next generation , adapting and surviving generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re getting better in general , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary point of view , they and i have evolved like boster rocket to send the genetic question to the next stage of the orbit , and then drop into the ocean .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to reach immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and in doing so , the hot vapor survives , if fish were there , it would have vacuum fish , but they have managed to make a habitable environment for them .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and especially how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contacts were trying to record and made a major mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve achieved a kind of balance .
and the reason for that is that , first of all , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and had been removed from the population .
and secondly , as a species , we have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to make it so that they adapt to us , and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we go and circulate and mix up so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it &apos;s going to be an evolution of the traditional way , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument , here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly mapping , but they &apos;re inherently .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a species , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a locking , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but it &apos;s led and decided to be an individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we could do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to adopt genetic adaptations to the body , to cure and prepare the diseases .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or eliminate the reduction of the risk of cancer or stroke ?
would you not want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than any choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than choice .
in the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in drone to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality that there &apos;s going to be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independently from each other , encouraged the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in an efficient way -- called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research in which he took an adult skin cell , a fibroid , and by manipulation of just four genes that induced the cell to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming in .
the same technology that the human insulin produces in bacteria can make viruses that not only can protect itself , but can also serve for immunity against other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been built into the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , much more will be possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the iron cells or the fresh fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophily , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technique , the same engine of science that can allow change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t we have the capability of a ken of jennings , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these are going to be disgusting .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed by alt style of evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve been missing this point for a long time at the selection of our common good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even to the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or are we going to selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society of dielanguous and uniform , or robuster and multiplier ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to be facing .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions ?
in the good , like in evil , and earlier than you might think , these decisions are going to be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you human skills , or another one that helps wheelchair drivers to stand up and go back .
now , as a fundamental question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a set of principles , the thing about thinking about it is , what enables all this choice in the industrialized societies is wealth .
at berkeley bionics , we call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re not something but something that they &apos;re going to do in the morning that will give them extra strength , and that will increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance .
this is actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldiers , who , on average , is about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the request that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds over different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of you , whose problem is not the big choice .
his flexible design enables you to get deep , to crawl , and to execute highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re so far to imagine , with our industrial partner , this device , this new exoskeleton that year .
so it &apos;s true .
now let &apos;s look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people around the world who are in the wheelchair .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re talking about very young people with spinal cord injuries that have been hit in the bloom of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
your problem is that you have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since his , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought that we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that she hasn &apos;t been able to walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboard-computer that &apos;s attached here on their back .
here are also batteries , the engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints , moving forward in this rather smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and i was in the best form when a monstrous purchase tree was paralyzing me during a ski trip .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my bed .
not long after , a doctor went to my hospital room and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;re never going to be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every five hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have made it possible for me to learn to ski again , climb and even drive with the hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go back until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and annoying is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i fight as a help of a fireman in a volunteer delusion the fire .
now , in our town , in which volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be very early on the brand to be able to mix with .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer in the marker , so i had a pretty good opportunity to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the most responsible man and find out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner , who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she stood in the battlefield and barefoot under a screen in the flowing rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- first reached the main man and was asked to go to the house and save the house dog of the owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would consider as a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that you don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer , or any creator , who could now tell for the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was the next .
the main man would wave me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , and you &apos;ve got to go over the fire , and you &apos;ve got to get a pair of shoes to this woman . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , &quot; which at that point were pretty much ready to delete in the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey back to the bottom where i met my enemy at the door and the beloved dog .
we took our estimates out to the owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a couple of weeks later , the fire guards got a letter from the owner , where they thanked themselves for the brave use of the rescue of their house .
one of the things that was very appreciated is that someone had actually brought her a couple of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side , as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at the large scale , but i also see the actions of the altruism and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and see people who have either achieved a remarkable success , or are on their way there , i want to offer you this memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they get to their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
serve in a suppenkitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
not every day will give us a chance to save the lives of a human being , but every day , the opportunity to change one .
so let &apos;s go ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
it &apos;s a place where the women are running the prescription with sex , saying hello , and the game is determining the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relatives .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
if something from what enables the people of our society to make decisions to the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , it would not only improve the lives of people , it would also improve our dignity .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we have emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal
while chimpanzees are led by big , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because this leads to a very tolerant society that has not been seen in lethal violence so far .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been deserving for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement rate .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction is also endangering the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laughter that the trees are shooting .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love of war instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent sex , also bisexual partners , with changing partners , and rules like that , conflict and social angels .
i &apos;m not saying that that would be the answer to all the humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us , and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plaining us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about the creation of diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , tances and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wilderness .
first of all , a balloon game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the ideal wealth with which you bring in new elements -- like the testicles -- and also how the game is both challenging and promoting trust -- while at the same time , it &apos;s unbelievable fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take a lot of forms that some of them are a little bit quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing thing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just as they play , we sometimes play on their own , and we select boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected connection that we form is the real food floor of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us into our past and present .
but they also have a secret to our future , a future in which we need to adapt to increasingly challenging challenges , through greater creativity and printing , enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this gold glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconvenient world , we have to play .
but will we make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people equally , life is not made up of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play may be the most necessary .
and so , my primate mates , let &apos;s hug this gift of evolution and play together , while we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , the same day , in exactly the same moment , every baby -- okay .
arm-eyed imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
so two pairs , each one of them is a baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because , if you imagine all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
imagine this just for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that &apos;s hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm has an x chromosome that &apos;s hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are survivable , both inflammation .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian student , and in this case , i study how people went to anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they deal with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types who ask social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i &apos;ve been working with people who have grown up with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the kinds of sexual variants that are not the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with an xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms , the protogonads that we all have , are growing up to testify .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone in the fetal stage gives off testosterone .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you have no freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body doesn &apos;t respond to the testosterone .
and this is called androgenic receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of having ovarian sticks and uterus , they actually get in and they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think this person is male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , as i do -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me are actually talking to androgens .
we &apos;re producing androgen , and we &apos;re talking to androgens .
the result is that someone like me actually has a brain that was more exposed to the genes than a woman who was born with testicles and had an androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , they can be distributed across the entire range of bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , raised as a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had ovarian hives and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side kidney hyperbladder .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitaly was male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and only when he turned 19 years old , he got enough medical problems , actually , because he was internally mentioning that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just one quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , which is called ovotestis , where ovarian tissues are wrapped up by high tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s a dwarf or a siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexually adapted to the norm from surgeons , is not because this would be an advantage for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are perfectly healthy .
the reason why they &apos;re often presented with different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic jump comes with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity , to be a black person , which is , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of their own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that is actually a very different thing for us , we &apos;re confused with these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now , you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most of the excitement recently was the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was asked in the head of the world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me with the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
now we know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t have a line between male and female , or between male and intersexually and intersexually , and intersexually , and intersexually , it &apos;s the tactile that we are giving to this line as natural .
this is almost as limited as full security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation like this , where , the further our science is going , the more we have to admit that these categories that we had thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple attitudes to create permanent identities , are much more disgusting than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we got into all sorts of uncomfortable areas .
for example , we &apos;re looking at the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re only different from them by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward and forward , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as a beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states , are the struggle over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes a human , so that it &apos;s a different right than the fetal life .
but the abhanden is a metaphorical gold glass recipe for misery , and , i suspect , catastrophe .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors used to never have that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve kept a feather under the nose , and when she moved , they haven &apos;t buried her yet .
if they were no longer moving , they were buried .
but today , we &apos;re in a situation where we want to take people &apos;s vital organs and plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start fighting with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and this brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would really make me happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much less insecure than we thought made me excited .
and it makes me think about democracy in terms of consideration .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i find that they were so brave and strong , and so radical , what they did is , every few years , i get to look at the narrow music in 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they showed back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years was measurable to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the masters of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of the birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the idea that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects earlier , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers showed this idea back and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they nivellized the game field , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities were counting , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew together .
democracy grew up , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the history of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , back , where the transmission is based on a very vague concepts of birth .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of it , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic common common .
and so they &apos;ve been preparing , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were taking the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic shared is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and egg sticks as a difference , that we should not have the right to vote , the right to have the right to have the right to ownership , etc . , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
the next one was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who spach about it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizen movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which are based on anatomic similarities in front of anatomic differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing with the disabled rights movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask major questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start asking , why do we sustain certain separations ?
well , well , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from the anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be the right to give their understanding of sex or marriage .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense for me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try and figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been made at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 on the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she &apos;s born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months before heinrich , she &apos;s going to get all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have inconvenient sex , the right to choose to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other odds about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume that he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s xy -- because you think he &apos;s male , he can now be put in , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , in all states , can &apos;t see the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only march a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science is making such advances in the anatomy area , that we have to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy that &apos;s based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time , it feels like science is doing itself .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we &apos;re going to pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at one point , decided that to marry a man means that you don &apos;t have y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have an y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgenic receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people by their skin color , but by the property of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever , which probably make social retriever more likely than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labradors who are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some of the 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the characteristics of the character ?
it turns out to be really hard .
and part of me is , what if the contents of a personality were something that would be machine readers in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go that way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our things really well , and i think we would do our things well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , for example , as it is in iran , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to submit to a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
the conditions of these species don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins with them to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i phones with him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very poorly , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of having surgery to separate them ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones that they are , without having to change around the state .
so i think we have to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers a lot .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or may have looked like , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think there might be different kinds of insights that are used by different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to see if we can do this with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender differences .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relationships and care for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and so , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i went to graduate school , one of my graduate students , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at it as a feminist , and i still do -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about resolving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
this is to say that there could be something , on average , which is that female brains differ from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relationships , and more aware of the protective needs .
we &apos;ve been able to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely concerned about trying to figure out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we could get more of a concept of not just how to protect each other , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we have to go in the future when we &apos;re going to have to take democracy beyond anatomy -- less to think about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that , as people , we &apos;re trying to make a more perfect connection , we &apos;re thinking about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to do a very public confession , and that &apos;s , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find a different colorful , crazy outfit , and to photograph and blogging in the last time .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of the second hand on flowing markets and in second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after another , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe to the environment , and also the money exchange of my shopping .
i meet all sorts of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping to my own personal pepper search .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
is it going to be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
is it going to cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i packed here at ted for this exciting week .
i mean , what does someone bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for just a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else that i might wear when i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i &apos;ve found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i do that , i &apos;m going to give you some of the lessons that i , believe it or not , from these adventures , have learned not to carry anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can look almost always great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be bad at wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
does it allow the chemistry to create these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing dressing , or i remember her seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but only when i became 30 , i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize this for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re inside and out there is a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they were drilling through each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to root everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing your own unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , that &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this back .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to put these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s waiting for me if i have a little love in the heart and i &apos;m looking for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point of view .
this is what we call , in our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy is growing up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m going to show you this is what happened in the formula one in the last decade , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that the car is monitoring in real time , has a few thousand sensors that are coming out of the car , giving this information to the system , and then processing it , and then using it to send back this car and change things in real time while information is collected .
our steps in the digitization of life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting arrow .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to show up in our lives .
our cities have been exposed , in the last few years , with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the open .
and as a computer in the open , they start to react in a different way , and they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we build cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- they &apos;re 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but it &apos;s still increased , and our last point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this sense and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition organized by paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , start talking back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom is going to be out there , a sensor and a driver .
and this is radically changing the interaction that we have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , it means he took the hammer at the end , and he threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
now , today , our environment begins for the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with the perception .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s been collected from the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of the cidane , the head rush .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you can see in the middle the colosseum , the tiver .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half time . end of the normal game time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
now , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of victories and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the space around co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel about the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
so quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
now , today , we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that a mac computer is made of , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things that you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the trash and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new way of putting these little pieces together and correcting the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we think that when we see every day , the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can make a change in behavior .
so this is the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about this , and the many other wonderful things that you can take with you , but i &apos;d like to talk to the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition to use water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was , how could you connect technology , new technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was reported at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they cause something like a water curtain with a little bit of images from water .
when these dots fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he liked it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach them , it will open up and let them in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths have happened through drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , these days , when you go down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
this is how the building works .
you see the person who wonders what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me , when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but in fact , that night , it was a much more fun one .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the imagery of water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these pictures could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each one of you with a little bit of a little bit of a different light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a similar formation in two dimensions .
or irregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light is not the position of the imagery .
you can play with different species .
imagine that the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and move through that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller that goes down to form a smooth v as it used to .
if you turn on the light , it looks like this , so just like we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is controlled by people .
it could have a impulse from every single point of view that comes from people , from the movements of people or something like that .
i want to show you something about this first .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a pulse for the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the imagery , the different captured impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do this all the time .
but then , once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something that we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said that they were doing this model exactly .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that we &apos;re going to bring people back to do something and change the environment -- almost something that we call building clouds , how to move a scheme , but with a cloud .
imagine that anybody can give a little donation to a little bit of a picture .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened over the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we can use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to put the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we change from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually include the people in which they together , collectively do things .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way that a cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but it &apos;s covered with imagery .
you can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments of olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital lightning at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for everyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very important to the context .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separated from nature , and that everything is connected to each other .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i had awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me was racing almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
ice mountains are born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice customs .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experience .
some people refuse to give up and clamp to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse dramatic passion in an incident .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , just as we humans often see ourselves .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it &apos;s got more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it at the size of the virus that we could variate the size of the cassets to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
while an iceberg melts , i breathe its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i &apos;m going to go to my photographs of these iceberg as if i &apos;m going to make portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they &apos;re going to exist in these individual moments of this way , and never again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a progression of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely you &apos;re actually going to be witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information has to be really miserable .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg , and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet from the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was in a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the 1980s .
then , one day , he came back from walking , and he said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is necessarily a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear .
we found 30 mistakes in respirating , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , just when you hear about the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate now ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving &quot; ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just expose a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to solve it .
i committed myself to the place to his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to speak , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that someone who &apos;s carrying all this stuff , it can &apos;t communicate . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw a laser pointer on it , which is just registering the negative surface .
so they &apos;re moving around and making art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the gender increments , and then the vaccine words come , after the bush publishing and the last thing , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control things , then we should find a way that pace can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve reached some things .
first of all , we put the insurance on the doors , and actually got a device for pace that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
also , we flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i moved into the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back and all the pictures on the walls were graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach in venice , my kids were involved , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice strandpromenade , some copper wire , and some things from the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it together , put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- we can build it ourselves , we can provide the code for free , we can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can squeeze .
no hospital either .
every paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to the pace room .
i love this image , because it &apos;s the room of someone else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about this : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rumble before the great revelation .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and perpetuated nights , tony , for the first time , drew back after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we put his bed up so he can look outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
luckily , we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone grabbed down and pulled my head up so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight .
that keeps us on the shelf and keeps us going .
and we have to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to do better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all sorts of recognition .
we won a few prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong tweeted about us , and then , in december , we were honored by the time-magazine when one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this is -- and this is the whole circle -- that this april , when you hit moca in the inner city of los angeles , there &apos;s going to be an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will probably be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty disconnected .
so basically , the point is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , then you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with fiber technology , but i just picked up something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and this is a question that every one of you should be wondering about every single day that you have to do , if not , then when ? and if not me , who then ?
at first , we just signed .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common child accountant .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today , i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , a epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom swamp .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin &apos;s toilet of green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
they did it secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a work on aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call from this teacher in the middle of the night , woman posting , saying , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man i know you &apos;ve found him in between ?
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and that i want you to please hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we brought them up , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight because it was necessary .
it was something that we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , she turned to a box full of ash and was put in my hands .
what happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the epiphany is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , and then they added them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so many times today .
he needs the same -- he needs to have love and pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power station , the clap , the bag , ack , ack , ack , ack , ack , ack , clap , clap , clack .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting in 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at her in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in every step , we &apos;ve produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process of what you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t so far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drivers .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the lowest words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; get ready for the crash . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a terrible thing , life was at the end .
now i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought of all the people i wanted to reach a hand and not do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i noticed a phrase , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is so far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to change anything more in life .
and this urgency , this goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was , when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair -- i thought , boy , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i was packing .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regret the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to get negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- while the inside is starting , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; counting down . &quot;
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this sense of dying , man , is not terrifying .
almost as if we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense for me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is , imagine that the same thing happens on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you would shoot , because you think you &apos;d be there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans that &apos;s three million races of radiation .
and more than anything else , are you the best parents that you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control and valves , then we can actually create a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we &apos;re able to get an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we &apos;re going to start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge , and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- contract .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that .
when we started our research on stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this structure was .
the only thing that we knew was very , very complicated in terms of the windows , the dropper-part , made by countless cereal day-flaws .
and it seemed to have something , with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
and that attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed on it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has been put together again as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after we experimented with various kinds of cheese , i realized that this was a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is active on the gray box , when a special configuration was discovered , even if the particular program is trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a u.s. power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should better find out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attacks code , and we found that it &apos;s built into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insides information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they needed to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already realized that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for you .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s a clip from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like the old-fashioned assembly language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we first looked for was system-functioning , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters were able to smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what kind of animal belonged to .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can actually live in vacuum .
and then we looked for timer and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we call ourselves to remember that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and it &apos;s very likely in iran , because most infections have been reported .
now , in this area , there are not several thousand goals .
basically , it goes out to the bay nuclear power plant and the uranium incentives in the native system .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client . &quot;
and i called them up and tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warheads to the rotor tax .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist in space and move , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
and what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to let it happen slowly and insanely -- obviously in the attempt to have warning engineers desperate so that they wouldn &apos;t be able to get back very quickly .
the big digital head -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely at data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is very much out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature , about how these centrifuge are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in so-called kaskades , and every cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attacks code ?
an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , this was really good together .
and this gave us a lot of confidence for what we looked at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go that way .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and a lot of times , we just ran into a sack , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little head takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big jump head comes with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s native , and it &apos;s just native .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we &apos;ve made using these processes -- actually , we &apos;ve only used hefi mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we &apos;ve added them . yeast then automatically assembles them .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- really blown me out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top , you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing is doing is it &apos;s catching the value of sensors -- so for example , of printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it &apos;s providing legitimate code that &apos;s still going on in the attack , with the wrong data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the chase , the surveillance chase is fed with previously recorded video footage .
that &apos;s cool , right ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to list a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so , in a power station , for example , if the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and when they &apos;re endangered , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranium .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we &apos;ve seen at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and if you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
this is the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
these are pictures over a period of six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to set up the consequences , and we &apos;re going to start to prepare for ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is the cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just finished recently .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , luckily .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing myself to most of my career to the appearance of terrible situations , and all of this for the attempt to study social belts that they &apos;re compelling and interesting , and hopefully in a way that understands what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew that i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew that i was going to do something a little bit different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure that has ever been created by people .
some of you may have heard about the fact that a couple of weeks ago , i turned on an ad at ebay .
i sent a couple of facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights to my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profits , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure that chris anderson is never going to let it go -- buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re seeing , which at the time had no title or a lot of content , and not a lot of evidence of what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name is here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and it could fly around the ears according to the contents , especially if i loaned your company for your participation .
but from that , it &apos;s a very good medial opportunity .
do you know how many people are watching these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this , by the way , is just the labor title .
so despite that warning , i knew anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , the advertising .
as i said , over the course of the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could give me anything as difficult and as dangerous as going into a room with these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in the greatest movie ever sold is that everything , from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely missed with brands -- from the front sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadion , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the film is going to study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing job when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies .
if we were to print it with a 10-size-sized , and no distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a title sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so maybe we sell a shoe , and he &apos;s going to be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever wore ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , getting them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of statuses .
so this is the whole concept , the whole movie , from the beginning to the end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg would help to do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how empirical people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth talking about some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde volliot .
what do you think the answer is going to be ?
the answer is most likely to be no .
obviously , with a virus , it &apos;s very simple . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing for me ?
jk : both .
so , doesn &apos;t mean that optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we have to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as easy when you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and put another in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put out the camera .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out of &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after another .
none wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , make it as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this interface of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently , we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplantation of one chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this image is for is a problem .
you see , if you put transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first pictures that appears .
i really like your way , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to explore and look through it ; immediately understandable ; characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business sprays -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra-genes so that we could choose this chromosome , and we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it into a cell -- and they &apos;ll estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes so far that it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this weird bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange landway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
look , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but there was only one company that was willing to help us -- and it was just because i knew john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go straight to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little independent films like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood films , say that the reason why their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends , who make little independent films , say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that this is the end , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
every time i go on my way , and every time i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they so far ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should have a little bit of this before the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion , &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short-term .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exhausting cart .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller films , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in which words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone &apos;s doing under the aches .
we &apos;re talking about chicken , fresh .
we find all sorts of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of any place , every time thousands of characteristics add to a species in just a second .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar concert .
what about me ? what about the printing stype ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who &apos;s like me , otto normal consumers .
you should tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this conversation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief in the vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
1980s , revival hits skateral points , except on the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray sounds and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , reliable fly .
there are enzymes called the restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girl -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell school museum throughout the country , all over the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addict writers .
is this going on ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have any ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and cash fly .
and what &apos;s noticed is that i needed an expert .
i needed someone to go into my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they have helped companies like nestle , feach , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people that shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just a cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world you live in -- how people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , and they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
the next one . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thought and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it get us ?
it colored blue because of the genes that we added .
what is the machete ? what stage are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what does the red represent ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
which other metamorphosis did you go through ?
this doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of it .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species , and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality had two separate , but the deadly pages -- the morgan spurlock-brand is an eight-sized brand .
they do very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with it .
and i think some companies are just going to focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- avoiding things that they &apos;re not sure about , they &apos;re going to be scared , these elements , and they &apos;re going to be welcome , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a historical chess .
what other brands are doing ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eight , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if someone asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would it be ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that will bring blood to whales ?
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , more reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh , like the fresh prince , contemporary , adventurous , falling and loving like erol flynn , agile and agile , professionals , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and monument like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , native , holy , thoughtful and kind of like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by changing the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies saying no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to get on this control , who wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i am , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we didn &apos;t usually have -- stories that a advertiser would never have supported .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you use mris today to paste the loads of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no time africans , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we went to school districts , where companies are bathing their way to poor schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects i got the most feedback , or where i had the greatest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that the agencies might not really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and what was it like for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film had premiere at the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half weeks of time .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be able to create a new form of the cambrian explosion in which there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , after all , the film has reached a very big moment .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to , has recommended their customers to let the fingers go of it .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks , you get in these risks .
i think if you keep people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i have the feeling that we have to encourage people to take risks in the prescription .
we need to encourage people to have no fear of possibilities that might scare them .
finally , in the progression , we should welcome the fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
each of them is a big lion full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; they welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented with my good friends of emc , who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights of ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the top of 7100 dollars to fund my ted appearance in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i was talking to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and your access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums , and i didn &apos;t have access to this artwork .
so when i traveled and visited these museums , i started learning a lot .
we are growing from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and as i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around all these museums .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in the museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t make any difference .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient yourself in the museum ?
open the map , and jump it with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to get to the end of the gang .
just go on . a lot of fun .
hide them .
thank you , but the best one is still coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite pictures , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
if the museum gave us the picture , you click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it &apos;s going to be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click on this -- but i &apos;m clicking this away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve held with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly noticed that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , and i talked to some famous people at the met , and i actually figured out that it &apos;s a game called squail , where a gans on the day of the day is beaten with a stick .
it seemed to be pretty popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the rises .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer this for nine .
the best one is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
in the previous example , it was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strikes ?
and what only if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom into one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen that before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- if you have rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these pictures , you can make your own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i created this , which is the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is the healthier , in the national allery .
you can put it all with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think the final thing is , for me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things here are not from google .
they &apos;re not even coming out of the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re talking to this digital medium of art , and we &apos;re representing it properly online .
and the biggest question that i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; have you done this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be someone who is completely logical .
this would be someone who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have chosen for one of these extreme , but i think , for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute that &apos;s in both hemisphere at the same time .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good share of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love playing with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we have now , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
they basically do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing at the same time can only be in a place .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is in two different places at the same time , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a floor threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you through , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they &apos;re not playing with bodily , but with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you see all sorts of weird things -- how you fly directly through walls , or that you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; you needed quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
it didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles that often .
well , i play with you sometimes , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made out of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t all follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re going to come up with the limits of biological reality , and the ones of our imagination .
so i would feel a lot better with the whole thing , if we could sort of show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here , i &apos;m going to make it bigger . we &apos;re going to look right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these rapid synthesia methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and for 100 hours , i racked to all the big devices .
for the last little bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool , shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all sorts of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to harness them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that unmovable objects feel the same way .
the drivers for intractable objects are not just people , but also the light that appears to be on them and the wind that goes past them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal is going to be quantum mechanical , we had to throw out all the passengers .
and then we did .
we turned the light off , put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up to almost now , all by itself in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just sitting there , it was vibrating . the way it was vibrating was sort of like this -- like a expanding and aggregating bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate it -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you about is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean for an object at the same time to vibrate and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or making new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms from which the piece of metal is still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just too precise newspapers , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places at the same time , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth it for me for all this year in the clean space , because , you know , you check this out , the scale difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical page says .
so , imagine if you were in multiple places at the same time , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just nurturing selection . we can selectively select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production , vaccines and so on .
how would your mind deal with your body being delocalized in space ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , and we turned on the lights , and we looked at the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more behind it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s so that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and weird of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , where you &apos;re actually sitting down and designing new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that when families think about where they live and want to work , they &apos;re given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand full of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
right now , we &apos;re far away from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than building them .
so we could do the world very easily with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
but just exchange the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments are doing this already ; the other half are not yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you &apos;re going to rely on , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid being protected and deflect from exhaustion .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of apartments , assumed that the laws would support such a building and don &apos;t stop it .
so i proposed that governments are creating new surfaces that are providing enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
later , i found that about the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people can stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an undefeated surface of our country -- what if we just put it in a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian bottom-up , and when people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do everything they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a massive comprehension crisis .
in the next planning elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovation and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his head of stability .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , by testing and investigating consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give new technologies great attention , but for progress , it needs technology and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so in december , we met in the room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember , in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk was in a very simple form that a charter city is a place whose first uninhabited country , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there , and the people are able to decide whether to live under these rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who meant that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to get our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i &apos;ve given one more filled talk , which includes a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very big city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans that if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that are going to come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugars , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and careful .
the head of congress came to the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the aid of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships , which they would support in the assessment of the laws for this charter , and in performing , that everybody can trust that the charter is actually being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city equally significant for all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and suspicion for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or restriction of their availability is when we see co2 as a starting material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after , on january 19th , they voted to congress for a change in the constitution to have a comprehensive rule that is reliable for specific development areas .
in a country that has just come to a major crisis , congress has been elected for this change in composition with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
in order to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 famines went to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city surround built in south korea -- big , big as the city center of bostons .
and we think that we &apos;re going to be the first with fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in the city building is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so , if you think about it , basically , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that managers are allowing to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
also , urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you know , was already explained , there are many rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to settle in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who admit that they &apos;d like to live in a different place all the time .
a million people leave latin america every year , and they go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , it &apos;s sometimes even kids who are trying to find their parents who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about this in honduras , building a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition around new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discoveries of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i recently made a survey with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which , according to a typical american in one day , is 70 .
also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo has been doing , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made within nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category to those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at making the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , you lift , because i &apos;m blind , just the hand , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-making problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , in almost costing water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank water .
i loved to go to this business , but at a time , i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years of olive trees .
so one day , i decided to visit the filier egg , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed out the buses of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s your marmelus gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marbles .
it turns co2 into methane by using hydrogen as an energy source .
we &apos;ve set up a little bit of cheating on the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of tastes there , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first , what case would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when they were 24 , about 60 percent , than when they were six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were buying a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people standing up when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who stood up when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you calculate it , people bought six times more like a glass of marmelade , who they had six to choose than if they had 24 to choose .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our brainstorm -- but it turns out that the decision-making problem is also affecting us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 that could just be brought to production stores , converting the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so the theme of the day : financial saving .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions for the retirements of almost a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fund boats that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability of being saved for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a context .
so in this case , we had about 657 plans that would offer people something between two to 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , the more fonds , in fact , was the less participating rate .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans , the two fonds , they had a partial rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that were offering almost 60 fonds , the participants now fell to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you &apos;re going to participate in more choices , even then it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have more possibilities available to them , the more they rented it to acties and fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
in a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they were available to them , the more they put all their money in pure financial market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , belongs to the decisions that people would recommend when we care about their future financial well-being .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in people who are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re going to shoot the decision -- they &apos;re going to shoot up , even if it comes to their own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to choose for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it more objective .
the main reason for this is that we may enjoy looking at these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually pull the comparison and the boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that less is .
you know , we really have -- modern goals like the replacement of the entire petrochemical industry . exactly . if you couldn &apos;t do this at ted , where else ? a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real ground .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to confine , and you &apos;re going to get rid of the unimportant opportunities , well , then there &apos;s an increase in the sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; d ; and there &apos;s an improvement in the decision perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst selling cat streams , they found that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in the sales and reducing the cost .
you know , the average supermacrat today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart is offering you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today , is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson has very much redesigned , and it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff is now automatically at a life-time fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches for the development of vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fonds , not 300 or more fonds .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , their customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started lunch , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-included vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i want to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap if you &apos;re ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it with the flu this year , we &apos;re always in the back of the year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are these all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of it .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that you &apos;re looking at it objectively , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would like to guess that you found it real the second time .
because the pictures made it feel more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , it &apos;s concrete .
i think this can be changed by making recombined vaccines in the front of you .
it &apos;s about people having to understand the difference between possibilities , understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be felt vibrant and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an ec-map or a credit card than in barrel ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel like we really feel money .
and it turns out that if you do it , that something feels concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees all working for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as it was , just as we &apos;ve added a little bit .
the little thing that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was a 20 percent increase in participation , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four percent increase in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryontes .
for example , here &apos;s a study that we did in a magazine process .
it turns out that in the way that supermarkets are up and down in the northeast area , the number is variing between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 64 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i &apos;m going to divide them into 10 categories , or i &apos;m going to show you 400 magazines , and i &apos;m going to give you these in 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 , versus the one if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called jazz , and the other one is called swing .
if you think the left ad is swing , and the display on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think that the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people . our goal is just that we have an opportunity to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to say something to the voter , not the one who provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think , we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the ability to completely configurate your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different from the number of choices that they &apos;re offering per decision .
car colors , foreign color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
so what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions are coming .
half of the clients go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the clients go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re constantly using the standard choice in the decision , that means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the healthiest , i &apos;m losing it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the very low choices can go over and over and over again the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little choices to the many , then they stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is choosing , nothing about my preferences at the interior , it &apos;s still preparing me to choose .
so it &apos;s so far . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment that &apos;s ever been done -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also makes me excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to motivate myself to be involved in it .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that will address the problem of decision-making overlap -- limits -- get rid of the superfluid alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can deal with more categories , less options ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people that you offer service .
because i think the key to the best choice is that you &apos;re selective in the selection .
and the more we &apos;re selective in choosing , the better we &apos;re going to be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today , we want to talk about how video is becoming viral , and then we want to talk about why that &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , and of course , there was one , and voodoo is just the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe started -- and that &apos;s up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- famous , singer , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to be incredibly famous in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet until the next saturday .
but in youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , just a tiny percentage is ever viral , and it &apos;s looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , partial communities and unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowwwwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in the yosemite national park before his house .
in 2010 , it was 23 million times looked at .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , no bear wanted to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you &apos;re doing when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel coming .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show them to a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s look forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . ttin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought that we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos; friday is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the chart looked like .
just like the double rainbow , it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big detectors in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know it , these other peaks are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 dropped it up , many blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was a first person to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared with a large audience and accelerated the process .
then this community of people who shared this big insiderjoke , and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; at youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new out of it .
this is what i &apos;m working on . he &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters in the width , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it &apos;s been looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats that look at this video .
the important thing is , the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
someone made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we &apos;re doing with it .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what are the scripts that you could have written in that kind of thing is in ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can emerge as the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend said i should look at this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against the ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket , because i didn &apos;t go on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike path .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at the funny idea and his argument five million times .
this approach is true of everything that we &apos;re doing creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
and all of this leads us to a big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and where the audience is popularity .
as i said , one of the greatest stars -- justin bieber -- made his start at youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today , we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the pieces of the puzzle .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
keep him in the march of the communicators in saigon , looking at how he must admit that his life was a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now spoting his .
he moved back into silence .
he died , broken through history .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i &apos;ve never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to express ourselves , but we were over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red light on sea .
my mother mai was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had asked her a task : the tide of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film ripe , saga glided a boat silently to the sea as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put all the way around the lhc , and then intended to collide with a part of the lhc to allow a rain of particles to bounce on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the greatest fear was that they were scared of pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was wearing a little poison bottle .
when i was a prisoner , my sister and i would have drowned her and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady virtue of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bug , the width and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirate that came many times , but the death of the men on our boat , or the exterior of the engine , who didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple has ever checked that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations that together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we got down in footscray , one of the working-class workers , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike in the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the scaffolds from the ladaches came from the rest of the world .
and the feathers were exchanged from english between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , twice layers .
it was somehow able to find the time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given and was put in another education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , the new things that always came out of the second hand .
two strands for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jug , or this , when someone went to the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; nasty eye , &quot; and here and there are mural , &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something was going on in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat &apos;s nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came so that i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then made a cosmetic education and opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t have the change , angry and unflexible , and sorted children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we &apos;ve reached a cultural impact next to the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one of them , i was the classic asian student , the unbiting demands of himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many people got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was selected in my last year of law school as a young australist of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous footscray resident , was now tan , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak to places that she had never heard of , and in homes whose existence she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the brick .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters , who have been completing each other for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and interacting with each other , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother , i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we got to the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youthlessness and education , and the neglect of marginalized and dismantled .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell you .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine goes to high performance .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t deal with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a new head , new in the image -- and not just okay , but something that you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to collapse the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
now i &apos;ve gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed have been explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an unprecedented optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the courage .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for which the shoe &quot; is not &quot; an inconsistent challenge .
now , the engineers among you will look at you and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of a day , i cook a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we created the breakthrough .
i made the decision to go to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm , and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can afford that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without the support of her husband , she cared for a conversation by bringing him to court and being an anchor in her own case , and a bigger conversation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turns out to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to give her a go .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around her sarg .
we told her stories , and we insured her that we were with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding it this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you look at who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come into the jar .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manufactured .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever wish ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privileges , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life that drives the bold of every wave , the inadequate , steady virtue of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this , and i could surely get it through , i would .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is here in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it photography at all ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
so the wires heat down , and 13-thousand ampters suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preferences for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because when the camera was using the camera , the process was actually planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you hit the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could .
so i wanted to create something else , something that the process starts when the trigger is expressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much more rigid road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , there &apos;s a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all of them with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones are the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really catch , but i always want to make it look like you could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more impressive if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted around about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what is realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that &apos;s not possible .
so we overlist our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday life .
but if we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special pictures .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot out of the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
makes it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and helplessness to the edges to the individual images , by adding photographic scarcity , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images , and let them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed from photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to have a compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that i would take several months to plan them to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a glacier trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we redesigned them , repaired them .
and yes , i even put the house on the top of the island in red to make it look swedish .
so to get to a realistic outcome , it &apos;s from me looking out at planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of different images .
and here &apos;s every piece that &apos;s very well planned .
and if you take good pictures , the result can be pretty , and also pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools that are there , and the only thing that we have is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects are missing .
and i think the most important point about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
now they &apos;re all back on their way .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major listener .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it &apos;s a cup of coffee or tea , and it &apos;s asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how is it ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everybody -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . this is a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and every morning , i &apos;m jumping on it .
and yeah , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very easily : every time i jump on the scale , it &apos;s also sending my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be able to work again .
and they &apos;re also called off from my general doctor so that he can see where my weight problem is , not just the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a glimpse of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i &apos;m jumping on my wlan-wage , and people are talking to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the most net thing that can happen , because this is the group forced to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be depleted to smoking patients .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play some kind of game together to control their health better .
next week , this is what comes to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure detection device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come into play , not only can they take control , be captain on their own ship , but can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re expecting to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start to hug patients in the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things that we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a short video .
we all have navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms around maastricht are .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and no one knew .
well , of course , in a way , these accidents , the debate is about the value of science and engineering on these boundaries , and it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
no one knew where the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so , what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , when he has , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and in the next few weeks , your micro-software phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and from today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to take the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re in vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relatives or anyone else , you can find an aed like this .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
these could be copiers , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the melted aed is still in its place .
please help us , and try to improve health not just something , but take your hand .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to tell you about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by making it ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be described by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of the dance , to overcome the soul of the living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shining moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , as i suspect , when he defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind than to assume that our scientific ideas are ultimately valid , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumph is complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it may take a long time to get invited .
now -- we can just jump over -- i &apos;m just going to jump over the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything that they hate , and we let them work in the government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peacekeepers for computer freaks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to the ratheters .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban collaborators .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is someone who &apos;s releasing him when he &apos;s in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the branding when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , the code for america &apos;s program .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s been doing a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never swallows these hydrant frees .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freely shrinking the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you tune to him free when it &apos;s fast .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , someone can take it away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but , of course , it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other governance technology does .
it spreads rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirings .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirings work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can open up the buercher sticks when it &apos;s fast .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my big , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread without friction , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
the software collection usually takes a few years to get software .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three people two and a half months .
it was about a method that parents can find out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that has cost the taxpayer two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this on every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spreads from rarely , is a kind of shot in front of the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that is packing the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sale-needed institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now , there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country writing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair her .
however , the short-term thing happened in my life and my career , which made me completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that is , if you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we &apos;re doing in common that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up to the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things are changing .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts their power from us -- remember , &quot; we people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought that the government is all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that most of the community is about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called the eat , pray , love -- which , unlike all my previous books , went out into the world for some reason , and became a big mega-event , international pollinator thing .
you usually get out there when you call in your town , 311 .
if you ever have the opportunity to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call government for many different problems , including that a thylacine is in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock &apos;s skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i was refused to the process .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- this came in : &quot; thylacines in my garbage tone . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happened to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , everything is public so that everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage tone behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously , the process is lacking .
turned the trash tone on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacines . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get the government into the crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of the government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform here .
i &apos;m talking about a platform for people to help themselves and help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
and so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you know , you go to church and you talk about god .
for example , you get very concerned about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to state services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to state services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to remember this is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand this , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is choosing .
how many times have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect that the government , reflects our values and our needs , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a farther ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contemplation .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write your whole life on and never create a book that anybody in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contemplation , the kind of thing that we have , and that we pay for , is something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machinery of government .
so the occupation movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the rule of finance reform law .
this is not being politically active , this is bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time that we think about it , about the world that we want to leave to our children .
okay , it &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act in the name of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to promote the function of government fundamentally in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that &apos;s grown up looking at your voice as granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting , about who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can express your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you can do it .
so , if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told a teenager that i wanted to be a writer with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
this could be to smash a hydrant , hunter-hunt , turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who are paying taxes and receiving services .
we &apos;re more than that , we &apos;re citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we have to do together , all together , will we be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to never succeed ? &quot;
usually my role in explaining to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are happening so fast that we can hardly keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single , boring slide .
... could you just show the slide for a moment .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather , the general form .
this slide shows data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like some other people , that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is a power in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could do the light again .
a little bit more bright , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , the timeline of a species , and this is a random mass of the technology that i want to do with a graph , then the graph becomes silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , on the semi-logarithmic scale , it would be very unreasonable in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if the transportation technology was going to continue as fast as the microprocessor technology , then we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds , we would be in tokyo .
do you have no fear that you &apos;re going to go through this craftsmanship and you &apos;re never going to come out of it , and you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but that &apos;s not going fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , which is increasing exponentially every few years .
now the question i want to ask you is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s about it .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , then that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
so , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is slowly accepting ?
because the transition seems very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people are talking about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk about a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
and i think the reason for this is because we realize that something is going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know that it doesn &apos;t make any sense at the moment to try and look into the future 30 or 50 years , because everything is going to be so different that a simple calculation of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is , &quot; yes . &quot;
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time-scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the total picture makes sense when you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clumps with many chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did that .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story about it , which is that at that time , small oil droplet was sweeping around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet were not about living in today &apos;s sense , because each one of them was just a little random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal amounts .
so every droplet was a little bit different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had an optimal composition for growth faster than others , and more and more chemicals from the outside , and shared faster .
so these are the tendencies to survive longer , and they &apos;re expanding in a bigger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in a way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these drops have learned the ability to write information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , in this spiritual , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
and the amazing thing about this is that this kind of storage of information over the course of 2.5 billion years that it &apos;s created has stayed the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same type of writing .
and that is , every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that , just for pleasure , we can write things in this code .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white pulver here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security staff .
there &apos;s a -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 bucks .
so if someone wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everybody in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i was actually an egoist , then i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the decline of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another , very interesting step , where things became completely different , which is that these cells began to communicate and exchange information , so that communities were born of cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the durability of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
so this communication now allowed the reason of communities that were in a certain sense the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more and preferred by evolution .
so the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve so that the level that evolution occurred was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step was now within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that didn &apos;t do anything but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures that were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i wonder , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the period of the time of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than this evolutionary period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now take place within an individual .
it could take place within a contemporary learning framework .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most sophisticated version of this communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , unfolding and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here and basically giving gruesome sounds of me , hoping to create a kind of confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , we turn it into a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that have been through multi-cellular organisms -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , present it .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in that direction .
telephone , computers , video obscure , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that someone should be expected that he &apos;s afraid to do the work that he feels he &apos;s doing ?
you &apos;ve also seen tys little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now , we &apos;ve been speeding up the timeline again .
the first steps of the story i told you , took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so forth , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative corporations is that they &apos;re making us uncertain about each other &apos;s mental states -- in a way that other profits don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism i use to build computers without using the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the compound machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , this is what the machine is doing , and the machine is doing something that &apos;s going to go far beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it &apos;s partly doing it with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s evolved from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , generators , a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please perform all of these randomly chosen instructions , take out all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that i &apos;m going to give you the next one . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so , find programs that are most likely to be able to sorrow numbers .
of course , the chance of randomly chosen instructions is very small that , by accident , they &apos;re going to be sorting numbers , so probably none of the instructions will actually do this .
but one of them may be lucky to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , take the 10 percent of the sequences that i &apos;ve been going to give you the next one .
store them , delete the rest .
now , reproduce all the rest of the limbs that the numbers have best sorted .
and that &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical block , john -- how are you doing it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutinas , and the kids inherit the traits of the subroutinas from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little bit closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluate them again .
maybe lead some mutations .
and try this again with another generation .
all of these generations need just a few milliseconds .
and so i can have evolution going through over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t say how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and weird programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job , because you &apos;re from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because her life depended on whether they were doing the job right .
i used to sit in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he &apos;s going to take a map and say , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of pieces that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t it make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists didn &apos;t get the call of alcohol , manic depressed people over the centuries .
it allows us to produce things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce things .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , the technology is overwhelming us .
now we &apos;re using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies of today are feeding themselves .
we &apos;re going to pick up .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time , as cell organisms have evolved to multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amubes , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this reputation to be mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very hard to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singers of mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indian at the time , we would jump into a car and swirl over the sky .
now we &apos;re going to do this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great heads in the 20th century alone , the young and often died of your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna was thirst , he took a bow , shot in the ground and water .
now we do this with drill and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got some fear of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sun without the camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world full of pirate and unfortunate ships and images in my imagination .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually have suicides seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
it occurred to me that our send clocks and cameras were dreaming of us .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use them to make magic rather than killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that readers can connect around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings pictures and text together , and animation , sound and touch .
the storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview , every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i get a character in the book .
and again , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows through gps where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and kites , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and leave the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they were lighting the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book and every world is going to be a little murmur that i &apos;m going to go here to the magical device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these cards were static .
this map grows and glows and serves orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even know , when we hear someone say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , and somehow we &apos;ve been accepting the notion that creativity and suffering are somehow related , and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of fees and nymps , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras chambers for thousands of years in an old bold book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that has new issues , like the environmental crisis .
to the theme of the environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect pictures of the ipads with the camera of natural objects .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do that anymore .
this ritual of childhood is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter and tag it .
the question i &apos;d like to ask everybody here today is , is this idea for you all right ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a food today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; today i &apos;ve seen a monkey . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways in which magic connects the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you &apos;re using the video of the ipads and you can see , through augmented reality , an animation of 11 that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we &apos;re all moving towards a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with this ? because with just one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in examinative , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the social weakest in the social construction settlements and places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and power that it doesn &apos;t otherwise have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good , but as a doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
by the way , i didn &apos;t learn this in my work as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a weapon , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trancedent state , the glowing coal with no burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body so that it holds when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them take over to the next century .
she was also the origin of a lot of arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she would hug me again , and when i said yes , she would leave me alone .
she was something that was doing that you always wanted to be near her .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative encouragement .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were walking all over the place .
i remember , i have to have been eight or nine that i woke up one morning and went to the living room , all my cousins were walking around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought this was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and she came over to me , and she took me in the hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it was like it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to shrink down this dark path of suspection , especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; sorry , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey word ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , you &apos;ll always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;ll do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; next thing , you &apos;ll always do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you &apos;re never going to drink alcohol . &quot;
now , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack beer with snatched my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just siling around there as well as anything else .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered my sister one , and she assumed , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , let &apos;s do that today , you do everything else we do .
i had what , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink something . &quot;
and then he looked me in the face and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going crazy about the conversation with oma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is being valued by the world as the work that came after the last book &apos;s success , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to give you something .
i should probably not do that .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m standing that i &apos;ve never dropped a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all her grandchildren are special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncle died of alcohol infected diseases .
and she believed that these were the issues that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in holidays and in jail .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are left on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population are despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in jail , released on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black men are either in jail , in jail , in insurance , or in conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racism , but it &apos;s also being deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that they &apos;re much better treated when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
yet , we seem to be quite pleased with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at 9 a.m. , and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state , alabama , permanently , pulls you the right to vote when you &apos;re convicted .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their election right .
we &apos;re projecting that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil liberties is going to be as high as before the passing of the election law .
the silence is earning .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , for children , there are lifelong sentences of life without conditional punishment .
we &apos;ve done a lot of work .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the question of death penalty is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught so that the real question is , did a human being deserve to die for a crime of him ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did someone deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we found for innocent , which was degraded and released from death row .
an amazing error rate . one out of nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is , how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anybody fly with an airplane if for nine airplanes to pick up , one would fall off .
but somehow , we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our citizens .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of the reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that , to continue to write , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know a lot about it .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people were afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that formed their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that we have to do it for the first time in the history of our nation with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the rapid rape and decades of the rapidly motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to write a safe distance between me and my very natural climb on how the reaction will be to the writing .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand what our actions have in the historic context .
we &apos;re always hitting each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the rapid recovery is not overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , it can never be there . &quot;
as i &apos;ve been looking for models in the past year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they may have had better or more sensible ideas about how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it was completely silent , and then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we &apos;ve ever been talking about systematic killing people .
it would be unconscious of us to be aware and targeted to adjust people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unconscious .
and yet , in this country , in the states of the old south , we put people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher than the victim is white , than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , when the charged black is white , and the victim knows -- in the same states where the earth is borrowing the body of yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental copy .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with this , with these difficult topics , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this is a quest that led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but ultimately , these realities are being overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deployment , boundary .
it seems important to me to unite both .
because we &apos;re ultimately talking about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , this is time to get up , to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe , in the end , things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we value intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-hearted connection that i think drives us to be not just open to all the bright and exciting things , but also for the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chief politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted to do everything , but what we needed most was hope to be a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places , and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe is that the ted communities have to engage in it as well .
there &apos;s no limitation to technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , border and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch it deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-busykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white , whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women met , and they were just talking .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much like . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do when you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so wing .
i sat there one day , and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; now bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine diener-mind that comes from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go to injustice .
wr wants to help people who were convicted of innocence .
we want to fight preoccupation and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to deploy lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine diener-spirits of creativity demons .
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think that the ted community should be copper .
we need to find ways to solve these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone is lying , they &apos;re not just a liar .
from socrates , he believed that he had a demonstration that would tell him from far away .
if someone takes something they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think , in many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think that although it &apos;s so dramatic , it &apos;s so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not going to be measured by our technology , not on the things that we &apos;re developing , not on our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re only beginning to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i &apos;m losing the balance . i &apos;m going to end up with a story .
after the old tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people moved back into an isolated volcanic massively that goes up above the caribbean coast level .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body loser of creative mind , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas are moving ahead of our thinking , in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishments .
i go to the study prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and should be a dish as an adult .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that he &apos;s not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he has to have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also wish them .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this contract , and the headline said , &quot; contract to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that the misconduct of the state whale and the police and the police errors were considering .
there was a crazy line about the fact that in this country , there &apos;s nothing more to be done , that there &apos;s only a misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my deployment , i had not only written him , but sent him to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed that it literally lives in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and the artist at work , in a way , was kind of invisible assistant and the result of the work .
i went to the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought this was so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase .
when i went up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered into my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i entered the court room .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you put this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy statesmen and office workers .
in the handturn , the court room was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
after all , this older black man came up with a very concerned facial output in the court room and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and it was disturbing that the janitor was in the court room .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the court room ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to say to this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to the ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going far off , but that it &apos;s going to rise to justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that , as humans , we &apos;re not completely evolved , as long as we don &apos;t care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is linked to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , from entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want to just say , those of you who see this , just say , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen an obvious wish in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere
if you &apos;re living in california , there &apos;s a volksdecision in this spring , which is actually to do an effort to implement something from the money that otherwise flows to the politics of punishment .
for example , here in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the deadly deadly doesn &apos;t end with a arrested .
if your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t have to look at it all for you , and everybody knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference is going to propose that money is going to invest in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violence .
it was the misguided cross against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your mistakes , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prisoners .
we &apos;ve got to go from the rhetoric of punishment .
now , we have three histories laws that bring people behind the grid forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of a little bit of good , rather than forcing them to give back the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a criminal , not less .
and i think that our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , you &apos;ve really got a string here to vibrate .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death is an increased risk of driving .
everybody knew your genius was a little laugh .
two : famine in somalia . speaker three : pepper spray of police .
4 : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social waste . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
eight : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . silence . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but they could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to this particular topic .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for this .
every second every day , our senses catch much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it carries and goes through all the information in the search of any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , &quot; the demand &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices that seven days a week of putting all these negative messages 24 hours a day , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks that the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spanians .
and then the renaissance came and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- about all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystic creatures , the commands of divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that in the next three decades , we &apos;re going to be able to create a world of abundance .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity , water and energy problems -- we already have .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcome them .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so that we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has doubled more than doubled , the average income in inflation of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has decreased by a tenth .
and the other thing is that the food , electricity , transportation and communication costs have decreased a lot of times .
steve pinker has shown us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and many people forget this .
and we &apos;re increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we have redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , climate conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of it is creating technologies , and these are growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , makes a big jump , and doubles the price performance quotient every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic course on the left , it goes upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something that my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet to democratize synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this : &quot; watson is forced by human opponents . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can be positive in a decade of the lives of billions of people .
think about the fact that a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little bit too much responsibility to get them to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on this planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about creating goods out of scarce .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver besteck , napoleon himself got gold steck .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum besteck .
aluminum at that time was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is why the dome of the chicago monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it &apos;s not as pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking of energy today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy prashes on the earth &apos;s surface every 88 minutes .
this is degrading and distorting whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not about scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , you &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
last month , this published with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the u.s. solar energy is going to cost six cents per kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy overload , then we &apos;ll also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager-space vehicle in 1990 , when it moved by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it like ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are gone , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i &apos;d like to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technique , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; and many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand gallons of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything is going well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola is going to apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology &apos;s supported innovation that we have today .
and if that &apos;s true , and i think it &apos;s true -- that &apos;s the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
you my goodness , we &apos;re going to get to the 70 percent reduction rate of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just think that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you &apos;re looking for google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in the abundance , as no one could have ever predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photo , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is , perhaps , what we expect in health care .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize with the qualcomm .
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can clean up , you can test your blood values .
and in order to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health workers .
if this device sequences a rna or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health department and prevents a pandemic from their outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and diet all over the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion internet users to five billion .
three billion new heads that we &apos;ve never heard of before will join global communication .
until this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe a peculiar understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to be desire ?
and instead of economic standstill , i see one of the greatest economic issues in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , unheard voices before .
how about giving the oppressed , wherever you are , a voice to be aware of and to create change , for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring in ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i &apos;d like to conclude with a story that really excites me .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called the foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein is going to evolve .
according to his behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eliminate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
and it showed that today , human pattern recognition is more likely to fold the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was someone from england , manchester , a woman who worked as an assistant of business in a rehab clinic at night , and was the best protein orphan in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous trust in our future is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of the techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would report really rigid scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people are following and applying fever magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long enough time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving to the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns out to be statistics and use this great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to go to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 , if a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 beats .
that is , the ball hits the outside , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 300ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
do you know what &apos;s called a 4,00ter ?
this is someone who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is , why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my world of medicine , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable , after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blind representation , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindfolding .
somehow that doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease vessels , and your home doctor has a cardiologist whose average performance is at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s going to beat a 257 .
somehow that doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think would be like the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday shelter , a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we send each of them , including me , into the world , to be perfect with the claim .
never make a mistake , but no one is thinking about the details of how this should be done .
and this is the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldman would learn for a blood test .
and that &apos;s how it was .
and i learned in my little sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane capability of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and executives of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubuläre azidose .
and all the time , i collected more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act properly .
and to give back to my top doctor .
i studied a woman printer , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made cluttering sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crushing sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart is failing , instead of pumping the whole blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it &apos;s filled with this ubiquity , so the shortness came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i put them on the treatment , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure from the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , which is water tablets , so that she would paraphrase the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , he can feel very paranormal sometimes .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the audience up , and i did what i should have had , which would have been a call in my doctor to tell him that he would have had a chance to take a picture .
and he knew that he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was doing this , and so i would be able to worry for my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the finstar , in stone huts at the top of the glacier for 18 years . two periods of each nine years , intentionally selected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their native mother , they &apos;re now spending metamorphorphically in the lap of the great mother .
i had a recent encounter when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet throughout her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she was working out on the fields , and she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
so i sent her home , and i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to say , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so missed by self-confidence that i asked the nurse who was taking care of the woman printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it was like it was yesterday .
so i signed up the desktop papers and a hospital car and a rescue assistant , and i brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nasty feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department on my way .
she said it would be like a thundering train of air .
and there was another nurse saying , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words are afraid of most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are afraid of this as well , but the emergency medicine is especially because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words are , remember ?
&quot; remember the patients they sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse asked the nurse .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she was barely breathing , and she was walking blue .
it would roll across the country .
the emergency staff pulled all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure elevators .
they hooked them to the breathing machine .
i was shocked , and i was smashed into the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster , because she came to the intensive care ward after the stabilization , and i hoped she would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they went to the next eight days .
on the new day , they listed her walking -- woman printer , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
she felt that if it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to bee .
they say that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i made a suggestion , and i learned for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though this one is swamped to you , and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it , and my terrible discussion , if you end up with the bad conscience , and you swear that you never make a mistake like that .
if you do recovery and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick in the inside .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that in such a moment she could only do one , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was shining the wounds and making sure that i wasn &apos;t going to be sued .
but i kept asking these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , it certainly turned out .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i might be able to feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection and never made a mistake again that the voice could be stumbled .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while it was pursued by this poem , and it was only that she had to get fast enough to a sheet of paper and a pen , so she could catch it when it went through her and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency station in a community hospital north of toronto , and i was looking at a 25 year-old man with a rich pig .
it was a lot of loose , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rockies , and it was a little bit pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and even when he went out of the door , he pointed at his rocks .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief asked me to have a conversation in her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it , and she said it would move over land , and -- as she said , she was looking for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the rich pipe ? &quot;
it turns out that he &apos;s infecting a streptococet infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rake , but the top respiratory path , and it causes the exclusion of the breathing .
and luckily , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , feeling free , and went back to work until it happened again and again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold two times .
there &apos;s a lot of this , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there were probably no lack of their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- the part i &apos;ll never forget -- she said that there were moments in which she almost missed it .
one was , i thought he had kidney rocks .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without the findings , my colleague , in the revision of the patient , found a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate it , and i asked my colleagues to look at it as well .
and he did , and when he noticed a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they were surgery , and they were fine .
both of these cases were coming to me , and they were asking me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistake only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is complete nonsense .
some of my blocks happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then -- she said -- it was as if her other hand is going to reach for it and get it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can tell the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t find , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so you don &apos;t do the same ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when did you hear the last time someone who talked about failures about failures ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you may hear about any other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support , and find out what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before it really became unpleasant to them , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off the wrong leg , believe me , i would have trouble looking at him in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of mistakes .
it &apos;s a system in which there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make -- the ones that constraints the sleep lack and the limits that have bad results and the good results .
she got the poem on his tail and pulled it back into her body and took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we put those who make mistakes out of medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of the medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical study about medical errors and wrong treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first papers i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inexhaustible .
we &apos;re working in a system where every day mistakes happen , where one of 10 medications is either a false or wrong dose , where hospital infections are getting more and more and more and more and more and more and more devastating or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of total errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine decides the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all this time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that keep the claim that their prayers and their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say that ecological -- balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came out and intact on the paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep lack is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive mistake so that we can take a perfect pathology procedure for a patient with breast pain .
then i take the same patient with breast pain , and i sweat it and i make it sweaty , and i give them a slightly alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is translated with contemplation .
i don &apos;t take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things .
and my patients are not cars ; they &apos;re not always telling me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this , in summary , is inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i was taught to do it , and you put all the flawed health professionals , then at the end of the day , no one is left .
and when i heard that , i thought , this is terribly -- this is exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot; i have the habit to say , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about her ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show the microphone to him .
and then their pupils are expanding , and they &apos;ve come up in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow hard , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that you can put in place .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a man , white to make his humanity , accepted it , is not proud of making mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning something from them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experience with others .
that &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
she supports others when they &apos;re talking about their mistakes .
and she &apos;s showing other people their mistakes , not to make a mess , but in a loving , supportive way that all of them benefit from it .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s the way it is , then people are making mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is going to evolve to create backups that make it easier to make mistakes that make people inevitable , and also enable them to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are possible , which are actually rewarded and rewarded for it , and in particular , for people like me who are making mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of these rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
but i &apos;m regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you &apos;re holding from me , but i can live with it .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a wall animal . in order to work , i have to stand up and sweat every day at the same time , get tired and really unpleasant .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know he was here in 1835 .
you may think he was chasing finks , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my kind of masonry , i sometimes ripped this thing .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos , or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we still get to the galapagos islands .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the broaders still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the changing range of tails .
because i experienced it when i was studying a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there , because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i didn &apos;t really come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms was surrounded by some mangroves .
there were bunk barrels of about 20 centimeters , black cardboard brothers , a subset of the bunk barrels .
the fisheries of these federal barrels were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on this , and they were earning overaverage in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish was shrunk to half its size .
they grow five centimeters .
they were genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also lucky to be there .
so it didn &apos;t change , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my co-creation in the introduction of the trawl net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s , rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s , europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fishing promotion meant countries that have already caught 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
and i went to it , and we did the recovery in the entire southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
now i know it was the bottom of the ocean .
90 percent of our start was weakness , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reefs fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the reason the ocean came to deck and then was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you run a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changing . for -- in this case -- a hard reason , or soft coral , is matched .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we started a living one .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of trushes is collected by fishermen every time they go to areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but to keep ourselves in spiritual health , on the contrary ?
but it &apos;s not being documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and will deflect everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t realize the previous losses .
there can be a series of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits , and i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , you just want to get the poor remains .
that &apos;s our goal now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem with people who were certainly living in predatory societies , killing animals , and who were only aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies .
so you don &apos;t lose a lot of things that are going on .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a huge loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to rape on the hands of the amazing beautiful landscape , all of a sudden , what they &apos;ve learned in abstract is amazing , and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see it ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not as much as they would like to show the evidence .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdote that the report of a captain soundso , which in this area has not been able to be used for a lot of fish , or fishermen don &apos;t normally be used by fishing scientists , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this is the huge role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand because the normal values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and that &apos;s where everything changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area , and they can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who aren &apos;t able to do this because they don &apos;t have access -- for example , the people in the midwest ?
here , i think the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shadow may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by this -- except for the pocahonic story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s called something that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , so he &apos;s spinning &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as in inspection , is often difficult for him to do , and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s letting it go , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the 1980s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a sheet of text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could find the creator of these thoughts .
and we couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do this in the west , and how much that would restrict the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do anything like this .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , then this page has printed bright yellow spots on every page , in a pattern that makes the page clear to you and to track your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be raining about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exists today .
let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can divide the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge bunch of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multi-millionaires that have made their money from attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song on forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
björn sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve acquired it by using trojans , for example , to cash money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers that have collected our credit card information on the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror , two months ago , the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and on this account , 14.9 million u.s. dollars were frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the revenue is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that today , it &apos;s more likely that we become victims of an online criminal than a fragile in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is going to be worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it .
the second largest group of attacks we can see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , like , an opinion , or by their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months , and have become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main group of people : criminals who are doing it for the money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are doing it , but the last group are nations , governments that run the attacks .
that &apos;s where we have cases , like diginotar .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to report insovereign , because diginotar had been hacked .
someone had broken in and hacked the system in a green way .
and last week in a meeting with the dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to ask if he could make it possible that because of the diginotar hacks , people had died .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die as a result of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificate .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail , or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly distributed in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can do it if you &apos;re in a foreign country .
certification agencies hack and fake certificate .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in diginotar &apos;s case .
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that have happened in egypt for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 plummeted the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of action .
in these records , a folder was called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could -- in a very large scale -- any communication of egyptian citizens could catch .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with aid so that they can do it against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojaner found , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re pretty sure to tap your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; sorry , can you see i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the statesman to occupy their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer is , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a braver citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy has to be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right that we &apos;re abandoning is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , we blind to any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very fast the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in the position of building things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone after another .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the &quot; automatically connected stone . &quot;
and within a few years , lego moved to every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everybody .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squawk somebody else today .
personally , i don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlittlittlittlittlittlites .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them together wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is copy , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can quickly build bigger cycles .
they put a blue on a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to add a pulsmodule , which is here , and you made a little blind person .
add this buzzer to an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wire or solve , littlebits allow them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to speed up the blind or slow down , just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a used stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve spread littlittlebits to children and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in everyday life and they don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlittlebits to design schools .
so , for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who didn &apos;t have any technical experience -- just carton , wood and paper -- and we said to them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was often as dark as eh and ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer made of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for this non-engineer , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everybody .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design chairs and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing it .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climb that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t do anything as angry , and left it back to where he came from . he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be an actual , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea rescued me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of these grubs of the doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start thinking it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are responsible for the younger brothers to destroy the world .
i started to think i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered tom talking in the open sky , and i tried it .
so i took my view of the manuscript , and i talked about my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you know , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not entirely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross up here and hold your share of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t -- you know what , then the devil .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i would like to say to protocols that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered to monthly with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but over and over again , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like the time is standing still , and the dancer would come through a kind of pforte , and he would do nothing different than he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before . but everything would get together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be human .
it was illuminated by the inside , and it was illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when this happened , people knew what this was . they called it in his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquito conquered south spain , they brought this use . the language changed over the course of the centuries from the allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , olé , olé , which you still hear at the pen and flamenco dances .
every time we think about innate and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old framework of the nobler wilden , which is a rapid thought in its simplicity , or the other way thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical : it &apos;s like allah , olé , allah , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer wearing a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging death row with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;s never going to go up to these heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name again when he turns , but what would he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just think you &apos;re a gift -- from an unbelievable source for a reader of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so , indigenous ones are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think , certainly in the past few months , as i &apos;ve been working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , frightening , well-expected successor of my abandoned success .
what i have to say to myself all the time , when i get crazy , is , i &apos;m not afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you have on the side decides , for a brief moment , to show a host of miracles through your effort , then the olé !
and if not , though , dance your dance .
and it &apos;s olé ! it &apos;s all for you , despite all that .
i believe in it , and i feel like we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria harbor of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s attributed to human consciousness .
michael olé ! for you , despite all this , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years , had the size of the bottom 48 states shrinked by 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the duration ice is labeled with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , and this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
the so-called duration ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood , which is flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because global warming is the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it comes to methane , is translated from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change in the atmosphere , it could double the amount if we transcend this critical point .
already , today , in some flat lakes in alaska , methane is degraded from the water itself .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled to another flat lake last winter with another group of work .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how are we going to get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat bulk warms greenland from the north .
it means that a small child from the ands that &apos;s growing up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind that determines his destiny , will become a very different human being , and a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little kid from montana , who is growing up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of stones that can be carried .
this is an annual submersible river .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through the ice sheet , it &apos;s flowing into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly accepting .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative iceprint .
and the west antarctica , which appeared over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , just like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes that were glacier a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a bunch of heritage , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the indians , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has increased .
but if you seal , most drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra was seen .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austrosion around the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the disasters around the world have taken a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historic context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day into the oceans .
look at the realm of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both beyond the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline of oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the biggest pollutants , combined with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal-fired factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be eradicated .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal industry and oil industries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year in calendars to rate clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i went home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow of america all over our country .
this is what happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a delight , happy guy .
it &apos;s in shell and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
this made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the locations of hukuk and the drilled celestial cords and the cannibalic spirits that live in the north of the world , the spirits that they would participate in their shark initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers stay in wages and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of her .
at the coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it up to the top of the line to spend a significant amount of money to get an ad on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal-fired factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal-fired technology .
and yet , the burning of coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here is changing everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean coal-fired technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixed with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all these people teach us that there are other ways of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph that i took just last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold new solution to liberating us from this miserable situation .
feed america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , one solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
feed america new . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that we have in our world .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the most powerful psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
feed america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , and that &apos;s fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid , when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and reach the hands , take the blocks and move them , they actually learned to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist , inspired by the kind of interaction of our real objects -- along with my professional patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we were to use computers , which , instead of a mouse pointer , moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and organize it as we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer and develop siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved with your hand , you can perceive each other , you can capture your movements , and you have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks through the extension of your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop a sense of their movements , recognize each other , and perceive the enemies of our approach , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is designed for the video relief , and when i flip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it goes backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimetryptamin five and methodyptamin and methodological tryptamin .
so if i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what makes you interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by invaders , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
one interesting result of the interactions that we started to recognize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we overdo it , we can shoot back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , mathematics or logic games , where we want to give people the possibility of fast error and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m making with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanoma mammi , the way you snuck this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methodydimethane .
then , after about 30 seconds , you &apos;re remixed , and you have a new type combination and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are a couple of other people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta tester down there on the bottom right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
to snuck this powder is about as much as being shot out of a rifle , slammed by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickfilming .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table , showing this character .
here he is leaving the sun .
the sun goes up .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have today to show it is a music sequencer for live records that we have recently developed , and in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can select which one wants to use .
and you can put these sounds in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat them by just holding a ton seed on a sequencing siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filter .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
in fact , i &apos;ve been discussing with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic branch with the discovery of the magical mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as a hallucinogen , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then even more over-ordered effects like tempo and volume , which you apply to the entire sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start by putting the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable , and putting it in a row , expanding it and adding a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do something else .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by flipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter to the barrel , for a little bit more expression .
i can make the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan it in the front field , but i can improvise it ; i can stretch it or shrink it .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken in , because , of course , by a human gut , they &apos;re called monoamin oxidase , denatured by a monoamin oxidase .
and finally , i can blend the whole sequence by turning the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that are better at how our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of advertisements for interaction with digital media that is bringing information to our world that is our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversation with all of you !
yeah , good day .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be embedded with some other chemicals that the mao denatulate .
now , i have to get a little bit of it , and that &apos;s biohacking , you know , dealing with modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been looking at the biohacking for a few years now , and i &apos;ve started that , because i just wanted to know , and i just wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in college .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology in general now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , already , is extremely important , and even more important , will become more important in the future .
there are such controversial things as all these genetically modified plants on the edges .
now there &apos;s craig venter in the u.s. , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , so gasoline from algae .
and then , there are things that are totally in the world , but most people are not aware of , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40-degree laundry , are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and the list can be continued endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which are contained in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that are necessary to potentially potential the tryptamins , so ask yourself .
and so from the interest of this , in this technology , i went on to this point .
so what about hacking ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then it will always be in the media , yes , the hackers will break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
so this is kind of a sad thing for the hackerscene , because it doesn &apos;t really hit what it actually started like , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem is , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can be a social problem , it can be just a problem with it , which is how do things simplify , so any problem , to throw up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , there &apos;s a whole bastler scene that &apos;s been doing all sorts of things with electronics circuits .
and now we &apos;re going to go to biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can hack it , so i found it incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper with it .
that &apos;s actually only taken two thousand , eight really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india , but now has members or active people all over the world .
these are a more artistic facility , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers , and in collaboration with scientists , they &apos;re dealing with these technologies and asking questions and working creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really always about finding such a locker access to having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s.a , which is actually more of a kind of forum , where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and then they &apos;re also asked , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , there &apos;s been a scene that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , this is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility , where everybody can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all sorts of people go there and just sit down with it , and they put in a lab , and look at what can you do when these lab protocols are doing .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for longer than those other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in such an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , also electronics , and they &apos;re combining it in a pretty remote way .
a group of ankara that i met a little while ago , and they have this is a student group who wanted to give the public more what they &apos;re learning in college , and they &apos;ve done so on street little actions , and they &apos;ve tried to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really all of you are united is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and it &apos;s very specific to the society to go and ask , like , okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you into it ?
so , o.k , to hack biology now , you need some material .
of course , you need biological materials , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or , in a way , what you normally understand under a lab is that these are kind of crude machines , extremely expensive , extremely distant , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , o.k , that you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine every one of them has actually higher sophisticated technology than most of the lab devices , it &apos;s really like this .
and s o with this premise with this premise then , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cap , a hot plate , and , yes , so supple-breeding , and then grew bacteria .
so anybody who &apos;s been gamed with a soup that he &apos;s left for too long has been done .
i then tried this in my lab to expand it a little bit , and then i bought a second-hand device on ebay , and i did a little d.n.a analysis , and i tried to do a father &apos;s test , so this is how / d.n.a fingerprinting , and i went back home .
it &apos;s not supposed to be a joke at all , but it &apos;s not .
down here in the picture , you can see the lab , in the demands , so there &apos;s this kind of admitted garage with all sorts of lab scaffolds that the university has been doing , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s quite successful with it , and it &apos;s also doing some pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of volkshochschool , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s where there are people who are doing this on their own , all the way up to large organizations that are doing this more formal in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but all the time , the approach is that it &apos;s supposed to be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we were sort of aware of our self , o.k , we &apos;re now here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then the do-it-yourself org website came from the founder , and he said o.k , we have to really meet now , also meet real , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and shortly after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and , you know , it was also about , yeah , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share with us ?
and what are our values , and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we did a code-of-the-conduct like this .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just has their wishes , his and what moves him , then expressed .
there , in my opinion , was a very good code .
and that &apos;s not what we have to do , but that &apos;s what i think has done quite well , and people are quite convinced of this .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not that way .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all see at a distance in the forest that seems to be a way for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re actually in the biohacking scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink chain .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , then you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move in this focus , so , it &apos;s captured , like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , so maybe we can get this , and then we &apos;ve taken a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , turned the lens off , and then you &apos;ve got a microscope that &apos;s going to go up about four hundred times .
you can see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart , and we pulled the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and unfortunately , that didn &apos;t work , but we still learned a lot about it .
so another project that came out of the french group of paris , and that worked out , that &apos;s pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got this kind of brain wave , such a e.e.g or something , so he &apos;s been dealing with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how to start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you &apos;d understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , it went .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought they were , then different lights in the room have gone on .
it was a pretty destiny project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s history , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , d.n.a , fragments , so that you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the scene , they go , they collect any hair samples , and then they do this technique , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like that .
and the machines that do something like this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at 4,000 euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbysphere , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just an application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve got two of these bastles running around and said , o.k , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve got open source , so free hardware , electronics , this device , and they &apos;re actually getting this to market , and they &apos;re now the cheapest providers of these devices around the world .
i think that kind of six-dollar or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a frame where it &apos;s getting much more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onion , and then made them light .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my kind of prototype , but it &apos;s kind of like , you know , it &apos;s kind of like , you know , it &apos;s on a branch like this , you know , it &apos;s got electronics on it , and it &apos;s got pressure , but it was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a chicken pender and i attached it to it .
so , it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants at the full moon and they sing to you in a different scale .
a juggler , if you make the full of water , has enough pressure , so i think that &apos;s about 40 to six .
and then you can accelerate the particles much enough , and then they go into the onion as well .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros up , or something like that , sahnespender about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
so , that &apos;s what &apos;s happening right now is that the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because , if you just read about it , from the secular literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to , as an informed citizen , make meaningful decisions in society , and you want to be able to contribute , then you need access to knowledge and technology .
and you have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
well , that doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
and that then firms in the words of open knowledge and citizen science .
so , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who were at least officially involved on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
this is a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know about some people who didn &apos;t agree .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , so these places are put together .
