you know , one of the great minds in traveling and one of the joys in ethnography is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a network of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important for the good of the earth as the biological network that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the innate , look at them as orginically and colorful , but somehow confined to the past , while the real world , which is our world , is progressing .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , it just started , two-thousand-odd .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to be similar to the spread , and then we &apos;re going to be very well connected , so that we can also get more involved in people .
and i would invite everyone to deal with it and to try something out of themselves .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you have enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that in the 20th century , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era where we were against and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth , either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work ?
this is a question that really drives me as a designer , but also in the field of research in usability and in front of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media , so they can use these interactive media , and so they can create an satisfying experience .
because i believe that the interactive media inside of us addresses archaic , cognitive models , which are paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long time , and that we can actually recruit them through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-technology that you &apos;re facing is actually going to bring you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i used to write down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain that for a second .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
these archaic models hear that we have a kind of natural relationship to virtuality .
this sounds basically unusual first .
all cultures have been involved in the dance of new life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a minute and try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second aspect is that since this archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very imagery , even though today we use a codified language .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media , by definition , is nonlinear , which includes the reasoning of linearity , and what of course tells us is that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information .
what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world ?
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors do the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in mind , so they live in demn , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , where we can actually do this all the time .
and that wealth to virtualize the reality , the people in the pre-industrial times also needed bitter , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory was going on .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen less to sioux than they were doing bow and arrow tasks than the americans stopped being americans when they were doing horses and horse cars .
in this head , knowledge was called off , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they were just passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , there we go .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that , at this time , human media producers and medium itself was at the same time .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but i &apos;ll talk about that in a minute .
crucial tool of information mediation has been stories since all of the time .
it &apos;s not change and technology that threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were addicted to preserving knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong in stories .
the author of the book , the story animal , jonathan gotchall , we &apos;re still connecting a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories to the achievement of the great-year-olds .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child on the lap of our parents .
no , no , far missing .
this goes way back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the field of interactive media , it &apos;s particularly impressive that we &apos;ve been anchoring by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the native american tribe of nootka-indians .
and they lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very inselfish area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what we call lead-land maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in that , of the australian native people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-map maps , but they used the so-called songlines , or trauma paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be mapped over songs .
where the language was subordinated by subordinated rang .
that means you navigated over sound and over rhythm .
and of course , these sounds and this rhythm have represented the geology that topography of a region , and that has enabled , of course , that you could defragment these songs and put them in a different way , and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from top a to b ?
or if we go to the tibet mountains , where i recently study a lot , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what &apos;s actually happened ?
this is what happens to us , this is the genital machine age .
we &apos;ve moved in what we call the avian age before .
what happened is the machine age , and what happens is the book , and it happened is the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the own production of our individual memories on external media .
on the book and on the image .
so , unfortunately , we &apos;ve virtualized god a little bit of a lost .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the picture , so not the television , the internet and so on , what we now call mass media , that these mass media has fossilized our memories , and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is commonly convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally and in many ways celebrated as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little bit of an intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has an impact on our thinking and our memorial ?
then the fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they have been overwritten over the centuries , more and more , by the influences of the machine age .
so instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we &apos;re no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract language of abstract language .
we don &apos;t imagine this thing in pictures anymore , and we don &apos;t imagine things in pictures anymore , but we codify them our language to you .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibet if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the story telling .
still , we are very , very arrested to the story telling as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacical , and it sounds like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber age , they bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our skills .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to just explain that a little bit .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural grid as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths ideas , inspirations and intuitions that have been created by human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles of chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and it wasn &apos;t until i came to lhasa that i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , it &apos;s a concept that lets us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , which is to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is addressed again .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we physically move into not existing , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , smart systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligently to a human .
all of this needs the ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are here as well today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so that you can talk to the two about the project in the break .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed again .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the tag of the panche lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely counter-intuitive to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to have some people in front of any consolation , or that they &apos;re playing with any console in their hands .
anyway , you do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s what it &apos;s meant to me that i discover the outside world , which is that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we &apos;re producing with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that just as much better , there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and it &apos;s about me discovering a city by looking at where positive or negative has been tweeted in places .
that meant that he was killed instantly during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize this with my talk , and that is , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the age of the vow , the age of technology , that have gone a little bit shattered in the machine age that can be reactivated with what we call the cyber age , and that in this way , we can get back to our roots in this way , about complex , technological , new products , not in fact .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very happy to be with them .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking bag and will be mine instead of speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but so far , i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , children are naturally curious or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a designer of house , so i &apos;m also , of course , looking at the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change our thinking , and why might we lose curiosity and have to rebump it and so on .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re looking at next to the actual existence as a designer .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put into something like this research semester .
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why are all the designers starting to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on .
and i just keep one of these little devices up there , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s natural for us humans , which is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crime .
and in front of the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , which is the next generation of human computing , where the human computer relates to how our tools or how the computer changes from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i started looking at this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe we have to look back at this .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , very briefly represented here , we &apos;re now moving from the third into the fourth generation of society or social form .
so , from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that means that you found yourself by talking about a common language , you could communicate with each other , moved into the same cave , or in other areas , cities have formed or villages and created tribal society in a way .
but the primary medium was language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
i mean , you had to learn , so no little child can talk naturally , but we learn it sukzessive , and it &apos;s reasonably natural .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and master it in stone , and i manipulate it .
now , depending on how i smash and when i smash , it &apos;s a very different narrative , of course , than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but sukzessive then moved this typeface as a primary medium , got involved .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today is primarily .
this is just the printing and print script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was a monkey , where adel , klerus and others have said , you &apos;re actually insane when the people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and of course , that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is that a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re going to be doing this .
this is , of course , completely confusing us , because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook , etc . , etc .
the sister who did this brave act was brought into an education camp .
with total transparency , which is the new thinking , which is what bangs on the old thinking , doesn &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and the beef is no longer a beef or any other phenomena , which is , i just want to toss that up and want to do that .
and these two worlds are slapping up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is stretching out very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the issue of ecology is a global issue .
it &apos;s not that if i think local ecologically , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work .
that means that local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , possible of course , intuitive , but also the total transparency .
as you knew at the time in the village , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile devices at a global level .
whether we know that we &apos;re accumulating globally and accumulating faster and better and better .
one day , she walked out of the way to a armband , maos , and for that exposure , she had to go into a hard job camp for seven years .
just as it used to happen in the village .
now , in the background , i &apos;ve just been busy looking at this , which does it mean , what else is natural for us , what might we have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because often people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly , so everyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not only is it changing , it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s going to be better .
and when is , of course , a little intuitive , and how can i influence it as a designer , and just make things so that they &apos;re user-friendly , so they &apos;re potentially intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and easy to use .
you &apos;re looking at it , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s where you start and look and say , okay , i &apos;m just looking inside the inner self .
and what does it actually look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it really mean , intuitively and how does our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibet can be intolerable , but the triggering spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you want to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in the details , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitive , which means that at the core .
and you can see that you have a &apos;s seven senses , most of which we think are only five , now it &apos;s even seven , and it &apos;s certainly going to come to the nearest , eighth sense in the near future , and as an extension of ourselves .
and look , how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t know what it means then in detail .
but i have to understand in the core , understand in nature when information becomes information , when will know from information and from information , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , handable afterwards .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
we see this here , when i design things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotony or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i see sort of right where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll think about where the right thing is .
and on the left , just intuitively , and then i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in there , just giving the salt accordingly .
but also our perception of how it &apos;s fooling us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , who said great anthropologist before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that , as we move towards a thread , shape-free , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is already starting to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and if i &apos;m going to stop a halboval there , suddenly we &apos;re not just seeing another unit , which is circle , circle and , but we &apos;re going to see a unit , we &apos;re not going to see three parts , a circle , a circle , a different one .
it &apos;s called the gestalt law , or the design psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape-law of closeness , design law of continuity and so on .
often in the third , it &apos;s forgotten .
but this is an essential component , if you want to design things in the same way that you &apos;re intuitive .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting about vision .
it sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you can see from the back to the front .
that is , they projieve a assumption that they see something that they recognize , for example , circle .
that is , we &apos;re just going to proclaim our vision before we see it , put it back in our seheapparatus to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projoled what you want to see .
so that &apos;s where it comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front and say , well , look again , and see if that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen , and what millisecond areas these things happen .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , signed us the cult of the seed , the poetry of the shame through the prose of priesthood , and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- took place only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who here knows this picture .
that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve just described .
now everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see something specific ?
a dalmatiner , right .
once i &apos;ve seen that , that there &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and then on , now you see him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled them now , that they don &apos;t see patterns in them , but i &apos;ve condensed them within a very short time to see this dog in this degraded image again and again .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m proclaiming forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which are in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s actually going on here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the last loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times in which i &apos;m going to do it by engaging someone with three seconds .
now , this superficial story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
this is what he has to do first as a present .
and then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what is it that takes five milliseconds ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time you fall in love with .
that means contempt , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for like a long time , because i don &apos;t take any election , which can happen in the same way .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , as we perceive things .
if we ask these countless world cultures about the importance of being human , they &apos;ll answer 10,000 different voices .
and as we also see things , what we pay attention to , and how we sort of reassure ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it accordingly .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily with the subject of human objectiveness .
so how does a human being deal with certain things relate .
there &apos;s a product linguistically the practical functions , so formalaesthetic aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are symbolic functions , why does someone spend on such a little towel , where , anyway , hardly anything fits in , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re also concerned with , of course , as a designer .
back to my actual topic of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , usability .
usability always means how can i reach a certain target quickly , or how can a user in a certain context of use be effective , efficient and satisfying a goal .
that &apos;s what the norm says .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible user-friendly ?
can i serve that directly , or do i need a handbook , or do i need it to be a training for that .
and it &apos;s less usable or usable .
that i just make it different and beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s more handable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you partly look at the software that we &apos;ve just seen , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is less intuitive or not available , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s far more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability has not been a fundamental economic factor since apple , basic success factor , if i just want to use technological devices to people .
why ?
because in general , through this new kind of usability , we are the natural user ínterfaces , for example , five times faster on the average of our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , you have to have five hours and with this new kind of natural software , it &apos;s just an hour .
here &apos;s a picture i took at the north end of the baffin islands , when i went to the narwhal jagd with this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be able to go home four hours more , but your employer , or anyone , is going to come up with the four hours of work .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding achievement for us to make certain things .
so if we go back to the software area , the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have already worked with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma said , which is , you have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to use the computer .
so not anymore zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
it made it much more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces already works a lot more with behavior .
so i &apos;m much more likely to form the behavior than the appearance .
it &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
i suddenly think that the appearance of the success , the usability , is becoming an application .
the canadian government has not always gone very well with the inuit , and over the course of the 50 years , in the course of the establishment of our ruling , they were forced to move to settlements .
and if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where , by voice , by language , by touch , by gesture and by mouse and cursor , i have to control things even faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point where do things get more intuitive ?
if you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish my little friend here and look , what does that mean from the point of view of cognitive sergonomy , when is it really intuitive ?
and that for us humans is always a little bit intuitive when i have to think about it a little bit .
so it seems like he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he just makes it proportionally easy .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a designer .
that means i can just transfer an intuitive human action model to a software so that the software can make much more user-friendly .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already revealed it ?
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for more oriented , selective , informed , transcribed .
it makes each of you all the time , but it makes you unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already going to be in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it &apos;s going to work in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s going to be used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is about 50 to seven thousand times more of us than ever after activity , so in sleep , you &apos;ve noticed that it &apos;s then less often punished than it is on day .
i can now orient this mental model of action , select , inform , transfer to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , sort of like the metaphor of the desktop , but now , not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , of an action principle .
and this is on a higher degree of usage friendship than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , where i &apos;m going to orient as a supervision , selective as a choice , inform in the trap , it &apos;s going to be big to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transcribe , i can throw it somewhere , or send it or buy it and so on .
and then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we &apos;re capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was afraid of his life took him all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through one example .
you know , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
supervision : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and i can now film on this , and i can say , just show me all the chocolate things , for example .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me , is much more natural than if you can make these things available over hierarchical websites or other mechanisms , in a way .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to conclude , a and again , to give the clues , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in this sense , thank you very much for your attention and your please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first thing , when you &apos;re a kid , when you &apos;re a baby , is that you care about what the divorce you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents allowed you to play more or less in your pottery , the more , so to speak , your curiosity , of course , is being woven .
and the curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
now i &apos;m going to talk about basically putting this whole environmental discussion , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , into quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day you give + you give about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide through the ocean as amorphous mollusks .
the slides of their slices were originally made of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it away .
what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re looking at something that would actually be self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and now we have a lot more uranium being put into the environment by phosphorus mining in the world than in all atomic plants .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium have been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re going to do .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blowing storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s like , if i said , shake your child , it &apos;s only three times instead of five .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think of the weighs to the bathroom , all of our earth is going to be a cemetery .
that &apos;s why you &apos;re thinking about the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over 60 percent of the carbon is stored .
he swallowed out , dropped his pants out of seaweed and defeated into his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he formed them into the form of a knife .
right now , we &apos;re growing corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms per hectare , or in fact , in the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more than we are reformed in the ground .
we can look at the garbage problem , of course .
and everything is packaged or content .
in openbach , for example , 20 percent of the waste is now wind .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
they &apos;re all in the pre-wind phase , in a way .
yeah ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed stores on the side of the fecalian measurement , and when it was completely frozen , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these diapers ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs over the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so that &apos;s not how men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s the evidence , right ?
he had the dog in it , and he improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sledge , put another dog on it , and he swapped over the ice sheets with the fecalian knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental discussion , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you give the people that if you give the people it away , if they say it &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;ll be refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , you say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
this is where it says the more you are , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one could termite , in so far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means that ants weigh a lot more than we do .
that &apos;s how you can do something from nothing .
and because they physically work much harder than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they correspond to their weight , in energy consumption a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far we are away from what we really wanted to reach and could , and how sad we are , that we are on earth , you can see , for example , that openbach has a program , up to 20 , you want to be climate-neutral here , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yeah ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yeah ?
and in many ways , this is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and of all the innate people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
you &apos;ve heard a little bit about overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really have to go back to cycles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit back in april 1999 the full control of an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-landing , no bioland , no sort of bioland progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
we &apos;re too many of them .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere has been highly discarded , this happened with the ethnosphere -- only at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can reclaim our nutrients .
we make agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
right away , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it .
in china , a night pot is still honey potters today , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that means that the whole western civilization-story is the fact that the city has always taken , but never given back to the farmers .
and so the cities had to grow more and more because the farmers were going to the cities , and the cities had to get their nutrients further and further and further .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded , until they stop making the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yeah ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve done brutally civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring back the nutrients .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting the food to stay until you pick up the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to reclaim the nutrients .
actually , the nice thing is , if you do that , you make agriculture , you make biogas , on a five-acre country , with five thousand people in favelas , so that a farmer can produce about a thousand-thousand-dollar , and the facility is waiting , chicken and pigs and pig and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes down by over ninety percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve repetition with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , we have to be a little bit bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that means that the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we have now built over a hundred thirty in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw a liter allee in so easily , and then the plant would be ruined over years .
it &apos;s not happening .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , we don &apos;t have to be very bad at all .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something out of it , you write down , in germany , the best fit of all the sewage plants is in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the fraters a little bit .
because the frankly facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s very good .
we &apos;ve been in holland for over three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they are the countries of someone &apos;s home .
but we need it all together .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
there &apos;s opec a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil supply .
and we will be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you &apos;re not going to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and most of all , to ask , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yeah ?
imagine if , for example , your wife is sad when you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you get 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
here we go .
this is not exactly correct , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much of it is kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we end up trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never achieve anything .
so not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better and deposit it and lose it in the burn facility all the materials for cycles , but first ask , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart being efficient .
yeah ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world , and our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yeah ?
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is just the right thing , right ?
at every place where you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities for life .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a garbage problem .
in how we think from the north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
156 nations send our television channel .
if you run , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because just the ground is going to die off , and the wind and the water is washing away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say , in germany , sustainability .
yeah ?
but if i ask you , how do you do that with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heartfelt , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so , not save , lose , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , people in the high bow , like this , coke can kick out of the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refour behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
we &apos;ve developed , for example , an ice cream package , which is at room temperature .
no biologist would , for example , claim that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to extinct , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is almost not what we &apos;re known as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re taking a series of travel to the ethnosphere , where we take our audiences to places of such cultural wonders , that they are being blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one after the other , they will embrace the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways that we can find a way of living in a truly multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants , so that by throwing away to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
a television set or a washing machine , they just use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that disappear , like shoe soles , like brakes , like automobiles , that need to be the way they go to biological systems .
the things that are used only go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yeah ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for them now to help this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free of it .
yeah ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we find out what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a surplus just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either go locally or with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalian launch on the pedestrian pile , and the rubber can go to biological circles , right ?
all of it is composable of it .
and if we can do it , of course , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and for mauritz and the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half of all the sewage problems in the world that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help with them , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve been changing the board twice now .
and i &apos;m not sure they &apos;re really going to be here .
so , just help me do that a little bit .
we see a lot , a lot of gigabytes of digital photos here , which you can take seamlessly and continuously , turn , rearrange in any way .
but it goes .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been represented .
there we go .
we can do things now that , if you break , if you break , you can do them in biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same way .
there &apos;s a direct renamese system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , which is actually made to go back into the loop .
again , in every store , you can get things back .
if you come up with that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the winds again ?
if it &apos;s at the moment , it &apos;s trash .
all over the place , these diapers are close .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s in front of the deponia , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside that they can just go back on cell ulosic basis , then they can plant with a baby in israel or in tunisia , in hundreds of fifty trees .
yeah ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize them and you take the powder to plant trees with them .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a region of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yes , kind of .
yeah ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute .
there are a lot of people working there , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra group , cradle to cradle , where everybody can join .
so not saving , avoiding , avoiding , reducing , not a management of debt , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can restrict the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen every moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i write that as an interpreter , i understand myself as a translator , which is in english .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to transfer the word word into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and word slope , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already translating germans into english can require more knowledge , even when you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we musicians do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes at first .
you think that the composer has written into the notes exactly everything he &apos;s imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-imaging data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , if very seemingly accurate , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description of landscape , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the level of the green is not to hear the saddles of the wind , not to feel .
that means that the interpret has to translate this unprecedented attack of notation into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today , i want to translate what else i think is musical , so interpret , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do this in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equivalent to me to translation of translation .
so , the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notated notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read grades and press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that &apos;s just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
you can only see the meaning of letters if you can get the language to do it .
so for the learning process of music , you need at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there are defects to whether you learn it for the use , just passively understands , or you can talk actively to the musical native speaker .
the work of the interpreter starts kind of like a theater director .
after you &apos;ve chosen to play a piece first , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re first exploring backgrounds of the emergence of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he made before and after .
you do comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
the motions of writing it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
that &apos;s what i &apos;m interested in .
you think of yourself in that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpret , you have a rich knowledge to play the composer that you &apos;re playing more often , and it &apos;s getting easier and easier to think in and feel in it .
the composer becomes more and more of the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more about my personal cause to play it .
now that the notes are a very accurate record of the cause of the composer , but only a scaffold , i now turn this scaffold to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this scaffold .
and the key indicator for this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play games explaining what these sounds might have to do .
now for me and for the composer then and what you could mean for him today .
every note , every phrase , it makes sense , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own personal now .
it has to be in this room , and now it has to be coherent , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i &apos;m allowed to have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve worked so long in advance as to reexperience .
how to reexperience a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same thing over and over again and over again .
i got older again a day that changes seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i notice the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this is also affecting my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s also wonderful when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , fair conversation .
you bring in a new idea , and in a moment , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried so hard and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s very fun to make music in this way , and then as the audience , you &apos;ve seen the way the music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play as much as i am at that moment .
i can &apos;t play as much as i can in 20 years .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and therefore , my palette of music will have much more color chances , emotions and emotions than today .
i &apos;m sure i &apos;ll have some color pots thrown out , but i &apos;ll get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jgurde , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and long-term professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was a lot too young , so he was already emerized when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early , at the age of three , and so i was already on his classes at my school time .
i was seventh when i went back to one of his classes , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballad was for me .
it &apos;s such a traded part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he shrunk , and he said , &quot; so ? &quot;
that has to be the difference in age .
because to me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a piece .
he &apos;s been over six .
well , at 710 , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have any significant memories .
i &apos;m going to play the play every few years , and it &apos;s changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because over and over again , i read something new .
one example of this from a very different area : monet has painted the seerotic x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , different light .
he translated the seeroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they looked at him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seeroses .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
by now , i &apos;m older than chopin at the age of two and a half years when he wrote that piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paperwork of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with several orders of magnitude .
he lived only three and a half years .
and i care about looking into the notes over and over again , even though i mean , being able to memorize them .
to keep the twin spell , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn how to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just speak a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular issue of the guardian .
then if all the fingers in time and right as they go in the notes , then the sound comes out that sound like music together .
when the error happens , the student gets the next difficult piece .
interpretation is hardly talked about in the early class .
all right , there &apos;s presto on the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and loud , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most people here know .
but even if you put those numbers on , it &apos;s still just a little bit technical .
and yet , it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added more content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that , in order to make music on the instrument , it should do its own musical work and feel like it &apos;s already there .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend , won &apos;t do it by themselves .
this is like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then on another possibility , which is to make it sound about an instrument .
people who have never sat down have never felt immediately with their own bodies , as it is to make a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my finger .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the continuing coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music anymore when you get bored .
no longer necessary to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is being made if you &apos;re constantly accused of music with music .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask that question , can &apos;t you sing a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
both of them are not too late to find out whether they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal chords .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained that they &apos;re intractable .
so i ask , how competent was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as you say today beautifully ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you don &apos;t want to do with it .
but what i would regret then , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still agree with them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an exceptional candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really picks up these ideas to eliminate these constraints for the available place on the screen .
i &apos;ll answer that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think it says , i don &apos;t know if it tastes to me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t give up on food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so they don &apos;t have to give up on classical music , because they don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and tell you whether it tastes to you or not .
whether the music is too peppery or too sweet .
tell you what you feel .
over time , you get claims and you want some more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience to listen actively ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that that means no more pop-ups and other nonsense -- that should not be necessary .
a piece of art that you never look at has no power to do .
the food cooked by a chef , or a chef , needs to be eaten and not just looked at or exchange recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundboard .
if in an environment where the adults make active music , or at least hear active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play it in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , rather than a red flower before .
and this sounds very different from before .
that was the very first start of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred years ago , or even three hundred years ago ?
by now , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano at the time as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been enthusiastic if he had had the loud possibility of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now make the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing , which is a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected from then as unplayable .
that &apos;s why the composers depend on us are interpreted to reinvent the pieces .
so they become audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think today in the mind .
or what i &apos;m thinking about today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been jealous ?
and how did that feel ?
shredded .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and when i come , with my little v , w piesel and i get there , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot something through my head .
but these are all roads in the u.s.a .
i say , ulf , what do you need for a big car ?
now , that loses half of its value in the first year .
and in fact , you work a lot less than i do .
why do i have to afford that little car ?
and then i immediately think , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such unpleasant feelings as neither of us disappear .
you can also try that in words like revenge or revenues or something like that .
i want to explain or approach you with this mechanism today , something that you &apos;re unlikely to be familiar with .
overhead on top of nasa , the arousing image of nasa .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then they put stones on the ground , so he &apos;s going to get them to see .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it has very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to make a living lie to keep a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or they can make them fall .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
this time , an anecdote , which you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answers , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time you need to learn something that artists can tell us .
because artists have a broken relationship to lying .
the artist shares something to you , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something with you in such a portrait that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , and it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more like that .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and not only in art , but also in the folk , in the mythology , in stories , it comes back up .
you may know this idea of the lady looking in the mirror every morning asking him , who is the most beautiful thing in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility there is from this real origin , also the mirror can &apos;t lie , can &apos;t escape from this true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a beautiful one somewhere else .
this is what we need to do with politically correctness , to bring over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us deception without even being able to live .
we have not only in art , in the national poetry , but in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the worchester &apos;s bishop .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the man should descend from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband and said , well , that &apos;s probably not what charles wrote .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that lie of life .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descent of the highest creatures , not of such a natural level , of something as an organism that still exists , comparable a rock and whatever , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington university , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to resolve and what the traces that it leaves that lead to something else but this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him very much because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft &apos;s research . a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re older at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral jurisdiction uses the word because , we should try to replace it with the word though .
do that once , and then you get the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the arrival .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about fireflies .
they &apos;re interested in firemaking .
but there are no clubs that we can look around where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the total of the vocabulary or a series of grammar .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
he signed up .
and this , you don &apos;t say to your teacher , you don &apos;t like to put fires somewhere , and you &apos;re delighted when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can &apos;t do when they just fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that in the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps instantly , without being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and other people .
so it &apos;s just the words that we use in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we &apos;ve found in my institute .
after which logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to show you two , maybe three examples .
the first example assumes what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something that &apos;s mental , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not gavage , material nature .
and if you have people in front of you who are the strongly belief that you have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that you &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as if the soul is such a spiritual framework about you , not from matter , you &apos;re just from meat and blood , something that is sort of stone , to the earth , conventional , decent , insignificant , yes dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and now , from this soul , you think that it &apos;s kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called the latin , the windmill .
and then , when that air sludge poisons over humans , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , right with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should think of them as something that is supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have that premise in front of you , you can understand the logic with which we experience this happiness , through a lie , to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you know three sentences from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have captured these images together so that they have the real space in which these recordings that are all made near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging processing , and these things have all been spatially related to each other .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that &apos;s how to lie that you can just get this logic wrong .
there are three sentences in that three-sentence .
the first sentence is , klaus says there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i particularly emphasized it here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
here &apos;s this logic coming out in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can claim everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the kanzler is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can claim everything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when sound says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he has no soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately feels like you can do something about it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends to be the opposite of the first sentence already proven and assumed .
because in fact , we would have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct and a third one that looks like it &apos;s got to do something with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from a early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on in the summer to show you what i think is really the punch behind this technology , the photosynth technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious if you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daily newspapers over and over again .
you have to have another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy , present .
this has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
it &apos;s such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact right in the middle between two equal hairs of hairs , it &apos;ll hunt .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how things are imagined .
the same amount of forces with the opposing signs are resolving each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if it makes the haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing .
he automatically runs to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , you &apos;re determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , you also have the feeling that there has to be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt on the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and you sometimes say , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of welfare .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , which was only in the computer with images of flickr , and just give notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the newspaper almost every day , that &apos;s what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of willingness , can &apos;t be drawn to account for his actions and claims , and therefore he &apos;s unsustainable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , first of all , you &apos;d have to prove that there &apos;s something like freedom of freedom .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of prior to be wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test something , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
for example , practice this when you encounter a human being who you can then say there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they all relate to each other in spatial ways .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
you say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they will experience , for which , of course , there are those predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and you already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making sure that you can &apos;t prove that there &apos;s no predictors , the man is quite happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he put them on a line where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s only interested in keeping himself free of the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the way of shifting the evidence load , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a way to feel that three-sentence in other people , you will do it , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remind them of your self-lie that way .
i thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea to prize .
i have to say , you know , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to try to imagine you .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s sued for this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve already begun to study machinery construction in carlsruh , technical college , which i think is now , kit .
and then i got to berlin in the middle of the &apos; 80s , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t exist in carlsruh .
you know , i never believed i was going to end up working at microsoft .
there was the core research facility of leopoldshafen .
they were all called kfa at the time , and the jewish one was called kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but sort of doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which kind of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium column person that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the fall of the wall , you couldn &apos;t use the word , because everything on the left was bad .
however , this was not the case in the &apos; 80s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in croszberg in the multiplicity yard , where you suspect evil .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called the know-how , and it made wind and solar energy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what was said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were what i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one said no , that was the vetoprinzip , which made you absolutely crumpled , and i &apos;ve doubted for 10 years , i &apos;ve been very hard to see if i &apos;m going to take my great engineering degree and maybe really waste it to a fuzzy thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always agreed to him , you &apos;ve thrown out the money to the window of your child .
it &apos;s about weakness .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and you get a picture , and you get a picture , and you get a little bit of , you know , where i was thinking about 10 years , a thousand d marks , which were still , you know , basic wage , unemployment in the collective , of course , whether that should be really the great thing .
and i stopped it to six and a half , and then we got together with friends , i became a co-founder of the company solon , and then along with the spin-off q-cells , one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world .
a huge success story , but again , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two-thousand-six , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that means , i think , it &apos;s equally crazy again , and it starts again with people saying , what &apos;s the quatch , that &apos;s not going to work , we &apos;re going to talk about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : everything from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of you that have all been put together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple , crazy story of where could you use a memory of meaning today .
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they have a fifteen percent renewable rate of energy today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have more ?
it just can &apos;t be technological .
if you add more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershops , when they &apos;re in our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;m going to find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated that was two-thousand-2006 , started the first contact with the island , just compute .
how big would you have to be a battery like this to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable ?
and yes , i &apos;ll go on another slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power is built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very quickly everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is wiped out with this el , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s going fast .
you put it like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of that , three of the diesels are always waiting , two are always waited .
yeah , this is what it looks like down there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind power plant , or solar system , or whatever it is , is generally a back-up system , or a system that can only feed in small quantities here .
our goal was just to say , okay .
the one is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger percentage .
there are a series of photographs somewhere here -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy per year , so energy per year , not the power at the moment , you have to turn off this one .
that means , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can take over the whole net .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re managed in any way .
no one in the world has done that .
this is in a little style , so you can also use your razor in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing research in adlershof ?
you can do that .
but if you want to combine several of these intersections , and they want to build a network , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to 70-odd percent renewable , and then we still have this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you do it from batteries .
that &apos;s certainly going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know or sh , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame that was recorded right .
you have to go more like a seasonal memory and match winter summer and not just day night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery .
how far do you even get there ?
and then we &apos;ve done a whole bunch of simulations .
and we simulated wind and the sun and the load , and we came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you can get out of the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insultants .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would all have to be done ?
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social groups .
we were only five people then to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the representation .
the brown is sort of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a 20-percent increase in price on the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the power company on the island , has meant that we love that .
we also want to support you , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the problem of technology .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical proportions of the island at the scale one in three to the exact same .
that is , we first searched to find the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
you can see it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it &apos;s got a megawatt of performance , and it can do that for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate the same size that he &apos;s standing there , put into the hall , actually , the entire dynamic behavior of this network , so in the hall now it looks like this , and there &apos;s the big battery in the back , here &apos;s the big battery , there &apos;s all the reversiders that we &apos;re simulating the net with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the miles of cable physics , to sort of map the vibration behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
and of course , we all share the same adaptability needs .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a certain culture can access the material world .
all of these photos are connected , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , this is the whole , single aggregate again .
and what we &apos;ve done since the last two-thousandth , the hall has been done , until now , almost everything that was going on between the single system of electronics , in software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a batteries manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the battery and the topic of the web and everything in between .
you have to , of course , communicate to the battery , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of the matter is that , in fact , on this island today , everything you can take away from problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our percentage of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to move back and forth at the moment , energy change , how to do that , on the island , for example , we have five to 30 percent accuracy energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electrical mobility on the island , to ask about it , but you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re a seventh percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without any memory .
they get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through smart grid , you can do it by expanding the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , you can hear the percentage , but you &apos;re never going to be able to completely dispense on memory .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that &apos;s causing a certain inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just made up of loud rotating masses of great power plants , where the wave is always about europe .
we look in this network , we see the fifty hertz , and if it turns ninety-four comma nine hertz , we catch some valves , then a little bit of merh steam goes in , then we get back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , that &apos;s incredible .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the sequel of stephen lawlers &apos;s work on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , this rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn this big battery out two milliseconds .
and you can see what there are enormous speed options .
and the message is , well , we need to get on these rotating masses , if we &apos;re going to get our goals 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our pattern run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply called the power plant to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , growing the coal power plant , because we don &apos;t have any other , or gasturbines , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to clarify that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also putting electrochemical storage on the net .
now , fortunately , there are a lot of studies .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use it with , is growing , and the benefit of the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and then people always come to this point and look at our subjects on this , sort of , our inselective state .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take a little bit of a far future .
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
don &apos;t go , it &apos;s weakness , it &apos;s child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have now 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany .
this is a role model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical storage around the world .
very simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a whole bunch of resistance and arguments .
the beautiful thing is that i &apos;ve seen , in the last two years , the scientists are sort of on my side .
their own photos are signed with metadata that another person has entered .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects to climb 10 megawatt-battery now to the german net .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so from that , you also notice that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far , in discussions , they &apos;re always trying to do these insulanders , they &apos;re making autark , they have their own little web , they &apos;re not going to do with our connection .
the question is , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy supply , which is drilled out somewhere in the world and brought to them , you &apos;re an island .
then they only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle for saying they &apos;re using solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , the talk of premium kola is that you can be a collective again , and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and also have a vision .
if someone has been struggling to complain and complain about who they are , then my photo is suddenly accumulated by the notre dame-cathedral with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverses , which use photos of other people , and thus make a kind of excess model of social experience with the use of other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to work .
thank you .
when steve lopez , the los angeles times columnist , went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings left .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos;s article about this later , a book that was filmed again with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassist who studied at juilliard-conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically early on ended by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless people on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend to all of you to read steves &apos;s book , or to watch the film , so that you don &apos;t only understand the wonderful connection that was created between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was ultimately the instrument that was allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came up behind the stage to imagine me .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton in a very healthier and social note about how the dodgers would never make it to the baseball world series , and all of that because of the delicious passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the byproduct of all of these are the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been preserved by escape or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
we came up with the theme of music , and a few days later , i got an email that said nathaniel was interested in a violin class .
i have to mention that nathaniel had a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , going around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in the same kind of rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this insane flier in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was frightened , not because of me , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his states and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic limb .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels of manic anger transformed into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
and as through a miracle , he took his violin and began to play some clips of violin concerts , and then he asked me to end with them : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pecca salons .
and i realized that he had not only an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i otherwise only know of my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , excellent , in juilliard , trained musicians .
music is medicine . music is changing us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i get it right ? your software allows you to have a certain time , within the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically connected ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can form something that &apos;s inside of all of us , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the triggering force of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and took care of him .
and i &apos;ll keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve been reluctant to stolen the cellist .
yeah . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , it was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , well-tasting , good consistency , durable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most presumably high standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could talk to you about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-growth forest of the mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want it to create hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what this unimaginable problem has become for our chefs , how do we keep fish on our menus ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests of bare .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butt , the salmon , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , probably or evil aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
many arguments against it . fisheries are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got a food processing from 15 to one .
that means you need 15 pounds of wild fish to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the pictures .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company that tried to get it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste of our fish is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we are basically a world of our own .
this feeding rate from 2.5 to 1 , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one thing ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put it up .
and that night i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , i called , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , what are , for example , sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know that . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i was telephone with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me a proper answer until i finally phones with the senior biologist .
like if you take a web search for pictures , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what the image is .
let &apos;s call it don as well .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feather , skin , bone flour , rete , dry and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and well-being .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually loved this fish because , you know , i swear to god , who tasted fish after this conversation after chicken .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i ate it first in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost skimming white color .
then the scope of semantic cross-connect and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked him .
wait twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand underneath .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the flushing of the guadalquivir river .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat cattle on what were basically wetlands .
they did that by depositing the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t do that , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company of environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they have literally transformed the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- barsch , sea , shrimp , aal -- and in the process , miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they &apos;re staring out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see are curved channels and this dense , lush march .
i was there not a long time ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to the kiss . &quot;
okay ? we were there , and we were fighting through the wetlands , and i &apos;m checking and sweating , and i have mud up to my knees , and miguel is holding a biology lecture in quiet .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glibon .
now , he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and he falls into more of the talk of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the morning .
so i interrupted him . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-replicating .
there &apos;s no food .
and of these 6,000 languages , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
depending on a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
later on , i went around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage shift .
and we got around the corner , and we got the most incredible sight , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re dragging . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you suck your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
official faith of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
now , last year , on this site , there were 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it has become the largest today , and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly , the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public good of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through the maximization of the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos of the first time should not even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the ground quality is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line of the a92 highway .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of trip of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , are you going to fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly back 240 miles at night ?
and the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an irreducible premise for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious , and i don &apos;t like a fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this badly , coated taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t tap into fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure , as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin works like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing things for ourselves that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over evolution to soak up uncleaners . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any uncleaners . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish . a farm that measures its success in the success of its predators .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any uncleaners , it impacts tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers today tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest combat .
and when it fought through the system , and this is the water clean , as it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that feeds their animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that literally is a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and you should do that , because that love story , whatever romantic , is also telling .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about barsch or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , that &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that ensure the future of good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in distribution , not overall production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it &apos;s been the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
fed grain of herbivores , pest combat on monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken of fish , and all the time the agribusiness just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how awful can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a compound in wrapping , a compound that quickly ecological capital that enables that production .
this is not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of the decline of the train , but because of the declining resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaw , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deeply in our water supply that it wouldn &apos;t come to mind in any sense .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it &apos;s never produced something really good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what comes back to two billion years of work experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that restore instead of using up , businesses that grow extensively instead of just intensive , farmers that are not just producers , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;m ever going to be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to bring you to one thing today is that the total data that we consume is bigger than the sum of their parts , and instead of thinking about information overlap , i want you to think about how we can use information to create patterns , and we can see trends that would otherwise not be visible .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram of age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes up .
and that &apos;s because in the middle area here , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you a couple of examples of what gives us modern progress .
we can go one step further out and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the common suspects , but not for everybody .
now , as we go on and sort of age , we say 40 years or more , we see that accidents are even the main thing that people should worry about .
and who &apos;s continuing to see that this is particularly true for men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover pictures of every single sport illustrated that has ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
they like to test it after my talk in their rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re no longer taught to do anything , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m going to click on what i &apos;m going to do with all the spending that lance armstrong talks about .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , could i think , &quot; ok , what if i look at all the bike bikes ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to give you the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you &apos;re not just looking or surfing .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s a little bit in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with something a little bit crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;ll just show the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediacatories that are the most common of time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediaset .
that &apos;s just to see when you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at some of these summaries , i can then go into the subject of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essig that you could buy to make a large number of salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump now and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re browsing on the web for the first time , as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump directly to a specific section .
that &apos;s important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in on my trajectory in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve been looking at today .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , maybe i can rearrange my course for my search past . here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic &apos; here for bing , or for live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the site and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the database .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information surplus .
we &apos;re talking about drowning in information .
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of always going from one to the other , we can start to be able to go from many things to many things , and by doing so , see patterns that would have remained otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then that data trap , maybe a new source of information will make sense .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- loudspeaker , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and when we know it , maybe we can even get wisdom from it .
i stop with that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a higher portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i went to school with the bus , one hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book that took my thoughts in other worlds and , in a narrative way , satisfied my deep seats in me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also showed up that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests and go and collect samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and ponds , take it home and look under the microscope .
i was really excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to be reflecting in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we went to the moon and we explored the deep sea .
we can put 6.5 million different stereo facilities together from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
i think that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this over-saturation of computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response was drawing and painting alien worlds , robots , spaceships and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , as i hid behind textbook , painted around .
creativity had to stop somehow .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big selection .
certainly , i would never achieve an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all i had always imagined when i read these books .
so i decided , when i was 15 , i was going to be diver .
the only problem was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t get daunted by that .
i was buffalo , until he finally found a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border , where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flatter oceans , is as rich as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas , the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , bright human imagination .
until today , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as eh and ever .
and when i was looking for a job as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories . that &apos;s what fit together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions were sort of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened with &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we went back to computer-generated animation , cg .
what came out of this was the first computer-generated software surfing figure ever to see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in money , he was just playing his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
arthur clarke &apos;s law , famously , is no longer a progressive technology and magic , no longer to tell each other .
so they saw something magical .
and that was incredibly exciting to me .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , that &apos;s really important to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy out of liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would arrive .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the film .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
from those two experiences , a whole new world has been achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company with my good friend , stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at the time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
so we did that , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature and the design of the creature , what we had actually started the company to do is to move forward too slowly .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was the measurement of visual effects and computer-generated effects in all new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made using cg , and the main figures should all be cg , and the world should be cg .
but the plate was really pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we weren &apos;t quite able to do that yet .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that &apos;s going on .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship . &quot; it became a love film epic scale , a passionate film .
but secretly , i actually wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , one of the last people in your language , not having a way to pass the wisdom of ancestors , or hoping to expect children ?
one consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced you , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving into the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
this is incredibly important . it &apos;s a good follower for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but it goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian dive , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , and i looked at the real titanic through a bulleye .
it wasn &apos;t a film , it wasn &apos;t a movie , it was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for this was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep-sea diving , a space mission resembled .
well , they were also highly technical and enabled extensive planning .
you go into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you can &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like being in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was quite obsessed with studying the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that had to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then make a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and that science at the time , when we &apos;ve seen them , had no words .
so that really got me upset , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we dived to the bismarck , and we explored it with robotics .
we returned to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped up a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you had no means to do it , so we developed the technology that was necessary .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive , and i &apos;m looking at the planks that look pretty much like this , and i know that the band has been playing there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly through the gears of the ship with a little robotic experience .
i &apos;m just doing it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically inside the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déj. vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner each time , i always knew what was going to appear in the light bulb of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over film for months when we made the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the design plans of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use these robotic avatars and put your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really hugely profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore something or do other things , in all sorts of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we really began to appreciate what we saw down there , for example , these deep-sea waves , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are sort of alien , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playful , nas-hair-haired trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degrees centigrade , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was the science fiction influence of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in the nasa expertise and plan real space missions . they go to russia , they go through the biomedical protocol , and they go to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we made documentary films , but we actually did science , specifically , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the translation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think now , a director has to be able to lead , a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of it ? &quot;
these silly movies don &apos;t bring us money .
we &apos;re just playing the cost of production . no trace .
everybody thinks i &apos;d run away from &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and i &apos;d have been celebrating the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into the business and ask that question .
you do it for the will , for the will -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is . you do it for the exploratory way , and because of the strange connection that emerges when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all this with only 10 to 12 people who worked for years uninterrupted , sometimes we were in lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the contempt that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
if you go back to land and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the disorder , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you work on sea , &quot; you can &apos;t explain it to others . it &apos;s like policemen , or soldiers who have done something in common and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same kind of leadership , which is that you respect your team and deserve in the opposite respect of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that had not existed before .
very exciting .
a tremendous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
so my way of making films changed completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d really been doing really well on the planet and transporting them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what are the lessons that we learned ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human trait .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the contempt of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice of how i can do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t restrict yourself .
that &apos;s what others get for you . don &apos;t do to yourself , don &apos;t bet yourself . take risks for you . &quot;
nasa has a favorite phrase : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees a trust board .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded has ever been done without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is very much an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time work at the foundation is about vaccines and saatwell , to make the things we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , actually more important than any other on the planet .
climate degradation means that over many years , their seeds are not going to grow . it &apos;s going to rain too much or too little . things are going to change the way their fragile environment cannot be .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to riots .
so , a climate change will become terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle for them is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price of one thing , the poverty reduction would be energy by far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone somewhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly man dies and takes the last silver language of an old language to the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price half -- we hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they consume the output of co2 , which leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature elevation has some very negative consequences , effects on weather and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems cannot adapt to such rapid changes , and so whole systems collapse .
now , the exact relationship between a co2 increase and the resulting temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to near zero ?
isn &apos;t it enough for half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to be under a three-meter bridge , and you can sort of squeeze it underneath it .
health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go all the way down to zero .
well , we &apos;re releasing a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american man is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everybody on the planet .
and somehow , we have to make changes that go down to zero .
it &apos;s gone up all the time .
only different economic changes have it influenced at all , and we have to go from a rapid increase to a reduction to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the service that every human on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted by every unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor , and let &apos;s think about how we get it to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could make a , or we could make b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading to nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make a difference and use less , but on average , that number is going to increase every year , and therefore double more than that , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very fundamental service . is there light at home so that you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the building , there are many services whose energy intention some individual services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like the production of fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvements is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three reduction , maybe even by a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of whether you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
normally , there &apos;s no deadline that you have to have a miracle to a certain date .
and you say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
normally you &apos;re just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitoes .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my year &apos;s contribution to the environment .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of gadgets like this , but they don &apos;t bring much .
we need solutions , either one or more that have an unthinkable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out time , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may do a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core point here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneck , under pressure , and then charge somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent of it will be very difficult , and getting an agreement for the storage of co2 is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the storage question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something , which literally many billion times bigger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next : nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high , and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong despite the human participation that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solvable , and that &apos;s why you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three out of five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies are generating dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem like every day , and it doesn &apos;t always hurt the wind .
that &apos;s why , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big price challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you have to deal with the risk that energy comes from where else .
and there &apos;s the problem of storage .
and to show you the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all sorts of batteries that are made : the ones that are made for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i &apos;ve looked at the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i &apos;ve found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so what we need here is a big breakthrough , something that &apos;s going to be 100 by a factor of 100 than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources over , say , 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible magic battery .
now , where should we go : what is the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
in many , they &apos;re going to say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here at ted who are already engaged in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , who has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies that do great things and have interesting opportunities , and i try to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , follows the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we were all talking only one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be canadian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who doesn &apos;t know and is most likely to be sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
it &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you &apos;ve never been able to simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it , and you can see that , yes ! with the right kind of material approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn this 99 percent , it &apos;s much better for cost .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; traveling wave &quot; reactor .
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
it really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve taken the part that &apos;s being burned today , so it &apos;s called &quot; abuse uranium . &quot;
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy to film , you get enough fuel for the rest of the life on the planet .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to move forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we need to achieve , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many are talking about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to get to that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely restore its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
that &apos;s going to be a key element of this persuasion .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should be the two elements again .
we should use the effectiveness efforts to get reducing . the less we emitted , the less the co2 sum will be , and therefore the temperature will be .
but actually , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the great reductions , just the same , or even less important as the others that are the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with all the gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework in which this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we &apos;re inventing this technology .
if you just give me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through co2 energy , i will take that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short term , will be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich countries , and almost all of the lives of those two billion will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of the choice of how this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we need to do ?
what are the actions that i &apos;m calling for ?
we need to use ourselves for more research money .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous funds that are spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market taxes , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the great scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million , and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , find another billion , the regularia and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s like promised , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
to understand that , that means to build deep in the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process at the top starts and continues to work down ?
bg : right . now you have to refill the reactor today , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it in for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they bury without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re often reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that offers a solution to the trash itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the trash : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor , and you burn it .
and we start by taking the garbage that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry vessels in the reactors . this is our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our filling , and so the waste volume is dramatically reduced during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the greatest interest in doing this really ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t set ourselves yet to a place , and there are a lot of interesting rules of openness for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; -- there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese did something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so everyone who has implemented a quick reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability to really get into life ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
that &apos;s kind of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if it &apos;s all right , and that &apos;s a big wish , could make it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , in the same way that their approaches work , that can provide the promotion for their pilots .
and it would be best if you could do it for several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in addition to the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as quickly as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know what they &apos;re doing as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and that &apos;s why , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mainly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , plays the potential , so the impact on the country and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we have to do emergency measures to try and keep the earth &apos;s temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and it &apos;s just before a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did afterwards .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t even work on insurance , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have this , if things get faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climatics : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is very similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems of investing in something that you only have later -- and you get the investment not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be . &quot;
it &apos;s all easy to have today .
the fact is that uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested that it doesn &apos;t emitt co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjorn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , poverty reduction , the fight of malaria and so on , that it &apos;s a dumb waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
underneath that , other things should not suffer .
you come to large sums of money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very close to a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the dispute that you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing our lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
now , his new flap is , &quot; why isn &apos;t research going to talk ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and that &apos;s why he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a mindset that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest possible free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter of tape , about a foot thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top of it .
and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task , which enables deep impressions into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in the task .
you talk about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re going to run around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and spaghetti .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of growing structures all the time .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow and they put it on the top , they take a step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but what happens , almost every time , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow makes the whole thing bend and fall down .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy with other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have a lot more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they make really droughts .
and of course , there are teams that have a lot more ta-da , and under the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might be asking is : how is that ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow on the top , so that they can repair a multi-fold prototype .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with each trial , the kids get immediate feedback and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most of them is about five inches , bwl students , half of them , a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all inconvenient questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-enhancing geometric patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that work ?
because they have special skills of the process companion .
they run the process , they understand it .
and that team that regulates and is looking at the work is going to significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i admit to you and not getting a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
i tried something interesting .
i thought , well , let &apos;s bring the poker use .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize for software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody had built a five-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
so what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
this is how the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend some time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping digital tools and processes to help teams make cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps you identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl has shown , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge offers a common experience , a common language , or basic posture , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step bond there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world , how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world record .
and the fundamental lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connecting sport .
it requires that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our feelings and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about that the wireless plan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay in the here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question a lot lately , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then suddenly you would see what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time there has ever been on this planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re building : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are 80 on the heels .
so what it means to make this incredible freedom of choice , in terms of making decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should or should not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today is expected to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . the smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . phew .
in the rich world there are diseases that millions of us have still threatened only one generation before , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play at the football , and we have our cell phone on the one hip , and our blackberry on the other hip , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphlet , tuteln , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method is to try things out , see if it works , change it if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re disappearing , and if we don &apos;t get out of that chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute that we watch our child mutilate a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the country that they live on .
i think we can power this world that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wrestle thinking .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never used scientific progress as hard as we have now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably as we can today .
we &apos;re on the verge of astonishing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment , to find a time when we &apos;ve struggled with progress , where we &apos;ve driven over these things more fiercely , to more fronts than now .
people are wrapping in their faith , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate them .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to progress in their opinion .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right to do ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to resist , to resist what is at the end of the most effective practice in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i wrote an article about it , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought molecules were in a certain way , rather than a random way , to push around in the field of nature .
and even though the answer to the question , &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be very different from the experience of your child &apos;s football game .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we pass in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles made me worried , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally , i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about twenty-four .
we &apos;re talking ironically about it , with little signs of leadership , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we have the trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just name a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get the evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say this for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , like i &apos;ve never seen and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the maser , mumps , and roteln vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were done to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government agent that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic , because of this fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are falling for masers .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody have masers here ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masers ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it &apos;s not happening in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 per hour .
but because that &apos;s not happening here , we can deny it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and make messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem the same , but they &apos;re almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst minds in humanity .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not that much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what actually has been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,00- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , except that paul is walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids are going to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them away , you reverse the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we have masers in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masers .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitary of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little bit too shrimp . &quot;
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we had no child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe this morning , somebody in lagos got on an airplane and is flying to los angeles , right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he &apos;s landing and renting a car , and he &apos;s coming to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you on the springs .
i know you &apos;ve done it because half of americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data is constantly showing this .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishing and soul to ourselves who can afford it .
so we run away from that , and where do we go ?
we run into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people are screaming at me and saying , &quot; what is it that you care about ? let people do what you want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to decide at all .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to adopt the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any kind of cancer quaker who wants to treat his patients with caffe-rung .
if you go on this path where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is placed worse than any other disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another radical example of this , a study of investing in volunteer age .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice scorn , every branch of petersily , every beam of rose , has been changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of them worked and some of them didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can get it closer . and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people to expand their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment acts of vanguard , the giant fund company of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , which is wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we should not allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid is a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from bloom .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we are right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees than if they only offer five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this in it .
and then people could eat that , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is : why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now , there are some of us who somehow forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; there are really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is a choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one should choose to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , why do we fight that ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for greater food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s about time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do it the way we do it , we &apos;re going to be guilty of something we think we don &apos;t want to be guilty , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy of ours , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want them .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , &quot; a deception that becomes a real thing , if someone believes enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks what happens to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , there &apos;s only enough to believe , a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
you understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss big investment officers of their employers .
a deception becomes something real because someone perceives it that way .
so in order to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that , at least since the 1950s , is in every magic book for children .
i myself learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study ; my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my lap like this .
i put my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist right here .
this is how you can see that there &apos;s nothing moving at any time , and as long as i push here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything is fine , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach little kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in the room know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say i &apos;m going to include my wrist to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i &apos;m holding my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and if i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t notice that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s kept there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my finger of time , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
this trick you can do to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago , or something , i read a study that really took me off .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing to me .
it turns out that if you offer placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and those blue dyes and a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s forever , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that made me really freak out .
but it turns out that this is not all yet .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of every shape .
a colored capsule , which is at one end of yellow and red , is better than a white capsule .
it &apos;s also a role in dosing .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics now . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an effective -- a few milliliters of an effective substance that you inject to a patient .
it creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that &apos;s going to have a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from that study that you have to reach the needle when you &apos;re supposed to go to the thing .
this is an eight-inch hutneedle . it &apos;s very , very sharp . and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end less satisfied with the result of the choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special cultured meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and drive it through until it comes back out on the other side .
if you &apos;re feeling bad -- if you &apos;re lightweight -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost obsolete .
so i propose that if you &apos;re going to be miserable quickly , you &apos;re going to look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first bit in the back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little one-hour .
i &apos;m really sorry . is it crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin , and on the other side , it &apos;s like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , can you ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid , and it &apos;s going to crack itself through , just to give us a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this kid of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of anakonda , believe that mythologically they came up with the milky flow from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is due to the great selection of different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is this forward-thinking alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the happiness you made by your decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near it .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn this around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see this at some point , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , he would -- look , here &apos;s a hole and there , if it were real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze some blood out for you .
yeah , here it is .
now , normally i would take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing that &apos;s disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think in this frame here and with the intention of making something real out of deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll look forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve made some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up after about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive traps .
second , what economists call oppertunity costs .
it &apos;s true of layman who think about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we &apos;re going to have to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : it &apos;s basically between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , that &apos;s a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a questionnaire and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really quite emotional , and that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he had fallen in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and about other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past , but it &apos;s basically just the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is talking to -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it hurt now if i put you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memory of self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives you &apos;ve chosen .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and confusing them is part of the very different concept of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful now , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who of them suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain the patient a had , patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is very clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the perspective of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it was done , and it works , you could actually extend the patient a reflection by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but just a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve made the living self of patient a worse off , and you &apos;ve made a reminder of patient a much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a better story of his experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hampton .
what does a story look like ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is characterized by is outbreaks , significant moments and ending .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living self lives his life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask : what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . there are about 600,000 of them in a month . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you get the impression that you should count , that what happens during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the finite resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we consume it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory itself for us .
so we have the memorable self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the transition with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories to be added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memorable self from a living self . time has very little influence on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two reflections in two different surgeons and decides what to choose , then the one who has the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t normally think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predictable memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of the memory itself as one that kind of sucks the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we &apos;re on vacation , it &apos;s very common , which means that we &apos;re going to make vacation in the service of remembering ourselves .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we eat from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors blue and green , because the celestial scene is the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we made a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think relatively often in relation to how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably been remembering this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes , in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened up the folder with the 600 images in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be an inconsistency .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of it , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you won &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and it &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about it in time , you get an answer , and if you think in terms of memories , you could get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two kinds of self .
well , the two kinds of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being that have long screwed up the exploration of happiness in this very way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two kinds of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with his life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy he lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he has missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you &apos;d know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that someone has arranged their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their own living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about the happiness of happiness itself .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you &apos;re going to end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get through our choice , even if what we chose is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t imagine happiness as a replacement of well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason why we can &apos;t think clearly about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question , how happy people in california are not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier when they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up going to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who are going to california , hoping to get happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more choices there are to choose , the more attractive properties of this choice are considered in the oppertunity cost .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we telephone calls a few weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is this something you can let us participate in , because you &apos;ve got a few minutes left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how emotions vary with income .
and it turns out that , under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year people are unhappy , and they &apos;re getting more and more unhappy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line about this .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t raise you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly sucks you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
well , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the whole american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this finding seriously , i mean , it all seems to be on its head , everything we believe , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , that the country would generally take a fund like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of the research of happiness in politics .
the recognition is going to be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are recognizing that they should think of happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to study life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to raise happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living now , and maybe about doing things slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as to save it in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one important point that he makes is that whenever you choose to do one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you might be thinking , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time to think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , according to my research at the institute for the future , it &apos;s exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most pressing problems .
in fact , i believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours of play a week .
this may first seem a little bit devastating , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week by the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so essential to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a peculiar language and a secret rule called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it &apos;s going to be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings in play , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you play , you &apos;ll see some nuances here , the eyes zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrow shows surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . great . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so overwhelmingly positive that they didn &apos;t even know that it was possible .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they get there , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of something like this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world when we &apos;re attacking the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are facing all the jokes on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we tend to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? ok .
that &apos;s me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. , why we &apos;re better in games than in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good at play in reality .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , although that &apos;s one of the things .
we &apos;re getting to play worlds more . i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this is what struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are transformed into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem as long as it takes to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel overwhelmed . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from play to reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft that give the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you with a global mission immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a job that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their skills , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you &apos;re not sitting around and you &apos;re twisting . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are lots of employees .
wherever they go , hundreds of thousands of people working with them to finish their epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that as simple in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingernails , you have a staff ready .
and there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only one species of jeans , and they bought them , and they didn &apos;t fit , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they were wearing them long enough and often washed enough , they started feeling &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve probably heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one talking and + one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem with cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time that we prefer to spend all our time in these worlds of play .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years trying to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily something bad .
it may sound bad .
but to put it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like a few jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend with games , it just makes sense when you look at the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using all this time to play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as human beings .
we develop into collaborative , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe in .
if you look at this interesting statistic , which has recently been published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person from today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours are the exact total that they spend in school , from fifth grade to high school graduation -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education , where young people are learning as well as what it means to be a good player , as anything else they &apos;re learning at school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying the tired of any subject by the 21st year of life , we become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever it is that the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what are players masterly good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have virtually unprecedented human potential before .
so many people now in the world who spend at least one hour a day playing online .
these are our master players , 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to wash buttons or fans ? stone or acid ?
the gaming industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started to think about what it is that these games are doing to us .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a set of hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and that &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters of dense social nets .
do you want to get jeans with holes ?
there are a lot of interesting studies that show that we people like more after playing with them , even if they &apos;ve defeated us evil .
the reason is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that someone will spend time with us , that the rules will be held , that we have the same goal , and we will stay with the end of the game .
so the interaction enables the growing of bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier to work hard than when we relax or not do anything .
we know that we work optimally as human beings when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
do you want to cut down a long way , custom , blah blah , blah , blah , &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of an awe missions of planetary extent .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective . you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve compiled more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischiefs , six or seven languages , is that you never hear anyone learn a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the only way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones .
that &apos;s the problem that i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can make more social bonds in games than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passing jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says , it &apos;s completely logical at the moment that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that goes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes of sheep needs . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , sheep needed .
and these were sort of the first of people developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you might know this story : the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games were invented , especially worthy games , in the kingdom of lydics during famine .
i had better . all these choices allowed me to have better .
there was such a famine that the king of lydia decided to be a crazy idea .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the play of the cube and put together a national strategy , and on one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the worthy game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with gratifying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next day .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re going to use games today .
we use games to get away from the suffering of the real world .
we use games to get everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
herodotus , after 18 years , didn &apos;t make the famine better , so the king decided to make a last box game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they were playing a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went looking for a new home , and they left as many people as there were food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of a neighborhood where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently came to the notion that herodotus &apos;s crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine might be .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people by playing games by flipping in games for 18 years , and then having this incentive and learning so much about playing with each other that they have saved the entire civilization .
so , we can .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion play hours a week .
we should make sure that half of us spend an hour a day playing games , until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve real world problems in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question i &apos;ve dedicated my work at the institute in the last few years to the future .
the reason that i felt worse , with all these options available , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try and predict the future .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then empower people to translate this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you three games that i designed very briefly to try and make people episode in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been following it for the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a changing experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have kept the habits that are used in the game .
so for the next world meeting game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game superstruct at the institute for the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people only have 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global extinction , sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn it , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we almost designed a jerry bruckheimer .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream-team , &quot; you have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-strings , and only together you can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job of creating the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we &apos;re bringing out on march 3th , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award of social change from the world bank , in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic on this . we have &quot; level up &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social nets , urgency optimism and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like that .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world &apos;s changing games start .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always had my synonymous dictionary in writing , but i &apos;ve been done with the editing of the text , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked in my life , which means &quot; disabled . &quot;
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , mutilated , mutilated , injured , disconnected , disconnected , served , injured , injured , impotent , cited , paralyzed , handicapt senile , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , restored , broken , counted , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend , and i first laughed , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; the supreme , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk any more , and i had to stop reading , and i had to go and collect myself after this sort of out-of-the-box flood and the emotional shock .
of course , this was a french old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s when i was just starting school and starting to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god , i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen and then you start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i will be celebrated for the odds and adventures i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expect me to find a more promising contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this contract .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words are shaking me under &quot; near antonyms &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you say out loud can manifest .
and that leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to put a human being mindlessly as a child , could be enough to restrict them and overstack them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open your doors ?
a man who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work with kids .
i thought the time i spent in this hospital was just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to seem to repeat individual practices infinitely often with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , this is what you know to build my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. and tried to stop those practices , naturally without success .
and one day , he was watching me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and graceful -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to be ripping one day of these bands .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because , if you did , you all don &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick from dr. p. , so i could do the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do with the prospect that being a five-year-old girl in the hospital station in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl had shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethic people .
this is just one example of many of the ways adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the examples that are already quoted from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow every single person to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is affecting the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints , which allow people to really use all their possibilities and go beyond the boundaries that have set their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , to give people their own identity , to define themselves in their own way , and to orient themselves around the world to groups that they choose themselves .
so perhaps this technological change is more clear than ever that there &apos;s always been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something very special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you how to deal with vienna , and i &apos;m going to admit something : this sentence has never adapted for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering people &apos;s questions , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this is a set of widrities that lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on a challenge , without being coined by the interconnected experience , as if my life had been so successful , because i could extend the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
widrities are not an obstacle that we need to curve in order to make better sense of our lives .
widrities are just part of our lives .
and i tend to see vitality as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t mean to make an impact , or the severe of a human fight .
there are widrills and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just all too real , and each person is going to deal with it differently , but the question is not whether we deal with widrity or not , but how we deal with it .
so we &apos;re not only responsible for preserving the people we love from fate strikes , but also preparing them to do well with it .
and we don &apos;t like our children if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than everything was worse than everything was worse , it was possible for people to have experience that was a pleasant surprise .
there are two things to be clear : one , the medical fact , to be amputated and to the other , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability that i had to deal with is that the world constantly means that it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about us and to share the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even to put a forecast for quality of life that you expect , we have to pay attention that we don &apos;t have the basis of someone who is actually disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just looking at what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , is a greater disability for each individual than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive and appreciate all its forces and its possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond patology and focus on all sorts of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we reverse them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the vidrities .
i might rather be aware that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome vienna , but that we are open to hug them , to put them on the shelf , to use a fight term , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we can see violin as something natural , coherent and useful , and we can &apos;t feel so badly by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed to something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its kind , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflicts emerge from creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to transform through conflicts .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of human beings .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really being tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of widrity , a sense of the icon , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give vitality a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
they &apos;re never going to be quite surprised because their expectations , my expectations , are home high .
maybe we can see vitality as a change .
widrities are a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve done to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it , who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if you really had it ?
i don &apos;t think so much .
it would be great if we could share this paradigm of normality against a different set of possibilities or strength to even make it a little bit more dangerous , so we can unlock the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills to society .
anthropolgen has found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , have carried elderly people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might be because the life experience was valuable for society in the survival cycle .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up to a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing in front of a scheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts on .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that .
and of course , it made click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i was very typical , came late to my birthday for two weeks .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnosis was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without orbital legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i only had a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bringer , this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or you could never live an independent life , and they have just punished me lies since . &quot;
i really found that he had collected the newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i had won at a letter competition in the second grade , whether i had won with the peers at hallobby parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahneman medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of a human being .
and dr. kean told me , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave children alone , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
see , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have made it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me , at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prostheses against legs from meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who have constrained me or overstated me .
you see , it really only needs one person to demonstrate to you how you can manifest your forces , and you &apos;re through them .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means bringing out something that is in one , tickling out the potential .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who were contacted in 1958 peaceful .
but defeat is not always such a bad thing .
again , what kind of potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and back then , gymnasia was converted into whole schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call it &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided by notes .
and the a student gets tirelessly checked , gets the better teachers , etc .
they then , over a three-month-long period of students with a &quot; enough &quot; the note &quot; very well . &quot; they were told they were a road that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks you to hear that the other way around the students were told that they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- aside from the students who had thrown the school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers were not informed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jean , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-year-olds , and they were the students with the grade , and they were teaching them something , and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no more hope . it can &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate capacity of imagination .
but if we can support the human spirit to continue to hope , to find ourselves and other people around them beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and who my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandment , but the god who only knows four words and repeatedly , he just always says , come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
when hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask you why , who is responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer at good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has always been longing for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose to remember a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to look at this as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been an ongoing subject here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor to the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make any sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because nothing else in the course of this talk will make any sense of you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it possible for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing special ones on the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms , they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , maybe there were 20 or 25 different specialities of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we are quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and make the mechanisms of a common bacterium to make the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically disparate from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , are you aware that every one of us in our gut leads more bacteria than it leads cells in the rest of our body ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think that when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they could only want without effort on them .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about them , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to start .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestion of essential nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in the form of a species ?
or are we sure to become something else -- something that may even be better adapted to the environment ?
so let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multicellular organisms , maybe as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually form in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is only briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single tank ; and of human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the fun value of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed d .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of them , the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time , when multicellular organisms began to emerge , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body is deprived .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body is in evolution at the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it &apos;s their fault .
he opens the door .
there &apos;s a beautifully dressed showgirl in front of him .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;ll take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that as a doctor , i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival after generation .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re generally getting better , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i are developed like boster rockets to send genetic questioning to the next stage of orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution is not inevitable to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s only the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there , which are thermophil , and by doing so , the hot vapor survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would result in vacuum cooked fish , yet they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s going on in evolution , and how we think about people &apos;s place in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contacts tried to make a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached some kind of balance .
and the reason that we would have been , first of all , through medicine , is to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been chosen and removed from the population .
and second , as a species , we configure our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us exactly and adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it will be a evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here is that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a species of distant planets , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a seductive , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that isn &apos;t just natural , but it led us and decided to make the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma , which we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if not only could it be possible to choose the gender of your child , but also to do genetic adaptations on your body , to heal and prevent the disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s or eliminate the reduction of the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in the drum to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 and into the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time to be a reality that there &apos;s going to be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , at the national academy of engineering , the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encouraged the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblast , and through the manipulation of only four genes that induced the cell to return to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially is able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect themselves , but can also serve immunity against other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , much more will be possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
and then just imagine two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the egg cells or the fresh fertilized egg to give their children a better chance for a healthier life -- elimination of diabetes , remove the hemophily , reduce the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technique , the same engine of science that can allow the change to prevent disease , could also give us super-attributes to adopt , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the skill of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why not live longer ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we &apos;re going to be transformed from alt style to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time in the choice of our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that generally takes perhaps 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or your grandchildren , have to deal with .
do we use these decisions to form a society which is better , which is more successful , which is more friendly ?
or are we going to selectively choose different attributes that we want for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society of dielanguous and uniform , or robust and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we have to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions ?
in the good and the bad , and sooner than you might think , these decisions will be up to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you overhuman skills , or another one that helps wheelchair users stand up and go back .
now , as a fundamental question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , is to think about this : what makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is the material wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they are nothing but something that will give them in the morning and that will give them extra strength and that will continue to increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
that &apos;s actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who is on average about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s a question that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal cord injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic injury .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
there are a lot of places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about a lot of them whose problem is not the big choice .
his flexible design allows you to go deep , crawl , and make highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re so far to introduce this device to our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton this year .
so it &apos;s true .
so let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are in the wheelchair around the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injury , which in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- were hit by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population whose number is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brainstorm , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought that we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now , let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that she hasn &apos;t been able to run for 19 years and now .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboard computer , which is attached here on your back .
here &apos;s also batteries , the engine is on your hip , just like on your knee joints that you move forward in this very smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and i was in the best form , when a monstrous pure tree was paralyzing me during a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my basin .
not long after that , a doctor steps into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go back . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steals hope from my consciousness every fifth of the time .
adaptive technologies have allowed me to learn since then , to ski again , to climb and even drive with my hands .
but nothing has been invented that would let me go again , until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt yesterday told you about how these expensive and hard to install car seats -- it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit called robin hood .
if i &apos;m not fighting poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman in a volunteer trunk , the fire .
now , in our city , in which volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fireman , you have to be at the hot spot pretty early in order to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the brand site , so i had a pretty good chance of getting in there .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible main man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in a stroke train and barefoot under a screen outside in the rains while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had arrived just before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of the owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would think of as a friendly gesture , forgetting that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or wealth manager who could now tell for the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man wasted me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up on the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i hoped to do , but i went -- the stairs up , the hallway , along the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who were pretty much finished at that point with the delay , in the bedroom , to get some shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back to the bottom , where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we put our estimates out to the owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the firemen got a letter from the home owner , where she was thanking for the brave use to save her house .
one of the things that i appreciated was kindness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i am witnessing generosity and kindness at the large scale , but i also see actions of the nearest love and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so if i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer this memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , you give it now .
they serve in a food kitchen , they clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us feel worse about this .
not every day will give us a chance to save a human &apos;s life , but every day we have the opportunity to change one .
so go ahead ; save your shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
it &apos;s a place where women are leading the perceptor with sex &apos; hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relations .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the congo forest .
if something of what enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little , not only would people &apos;s lives improve , but our dignity will be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
now , chimpanzees are known for their aggression .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal
while chimpanzees are led by big , scary guys , the bonobo-society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese primordial forest , and they &apos;re only difficult to observe .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the darkness itself -- the scene of a violent debate that has been devastated for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decrease of the tree , you can &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos left -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , bisexual sex , with shifting partners , and rules like conflict and social angels .
i &apos;m not saying this is the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos &apos; life is made up of more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love to play their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that &apos;s fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
the income distribution is going to make sure that everybody &apos;s better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is going to give us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about creating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that holds us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a highly developed person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the ideal wealth to bring new elements into play with -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while it &apos;s also incredibly fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little bit quieter , imagination , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful water .
i think just like them , we sometimes play on our own , and we emit boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutrient ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future where we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing , enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconsistent world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate mates , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together , while we rediscover the creativity of cameroon and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at the very same moment , every baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
so two pairs , each baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because , if you imagine the stuff all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survivable , both of them .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian studying , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- meaning human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought the fish knew something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve worn in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types who are questioning social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality happens in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the possible types of sexual variants that are not the male or female standard .
in one case , you may have someone with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosummer is the protogonads that we all have in fetal stage grew to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone takes off in the fetal stadium .
they took these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing , and concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called the androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to it .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it takes most of the time to get to puberty and grow their breasts and develop , but it doesn &apos;t get their periodic table until someone comes up with something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian sticks and uterus , she actually has testicles and she has a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have in our bodies something called adrenaline glands .
if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side one is making androgens , which are viriliating hormones .
most women , like me -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome set , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk to androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the result is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgen receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual is not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , they can be distributed across the whole range .
another example : a few years ago , i got a 19-year-old man &apos;s phone call , who was born as a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side kidney beef hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were manipulated male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis , and they lower happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew something .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , actually , because he was internally mentioning the doctors found out that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variant of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , where ovotesty tissue is wrapped up by testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarfs or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- surgeons are often adapted to the norm , is not because it would be for their physical health of advantage .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they &apos;re often given different types of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomical exposure is going to be with a certain identity .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is about having a female identity ; being a black person is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that is actually something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i &apos;ve seen most exciting recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the body of the world championship in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me on the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature does not draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female and intersexual ; in fact , we are the ones that pretend this line as natural .
this is almost limited to complete security -- possibly to the fish , definitely to us .
so we have a situation where , the further our science continues , the more we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories that made very simple arrangements to create permanent identities are much less sharp than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we went into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
so for example , we &apos;re starting to see the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them by just a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science further and further forward , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort , where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than the fetal life .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult conversations today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors had never had a hard time fighting with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve just kept a feather under their nose , and when it moved , they haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you bury it .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we want to take people &apos;s vital organs and plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re starting to fight the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and this brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might assume that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i &apos;m defending people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit that it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are actually much more insecure than we thought i was very excited about .
and it makes me excited about thinking about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were razorites , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every couple of years i found myself looking at the narrow musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , which is why .
what they returned was an anatomical concept , and they replaced it through another one that was radically and beautiful and 200 years for us to measure .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the notion that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
they niveled the field of the game , and they decided that anatomically , the common counting , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it turns out that a lot of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and nature &apos;s god .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and so in a really wonderful way , they &apos;ve prepared the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomical commonality is more important than the anatomical difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and eggs as a difference is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote for full citizenship , the right to own property , etc . &quot;
and women successfully argued that .
the next thing was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like soap truth , who spach over it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marshing rows of citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color based on anatomical commonalities before anatomical differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing with the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to question why we keep certain separations .
well , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical divisions that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been presented at the beginning of the talk .
we &apos;ve done two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 on the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months early , so she was born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill standing outside with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , she acquired all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have the right to choose , the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time-point of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be attracted to what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t see the same thing in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can now marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is making such progress in the field of anatomy , that we have to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time it feels like science is on its own .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimum components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we &apos;ve got to pull a line somewhere , so we &apos;re going to pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at a point , decided that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and you have a woman to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not being tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story that i told you about the androgen defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of speech , &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people by &quot; their skin color , &quot; but by the characteristic of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their character ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserve socially rather than some people i know .
i &apos;d like to say that i probably know some bright labradorh dogs that are more capable of making more sparkly , more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how do we operate the question of the characteristics of the character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me is wondering , what if the content of a personality is something that would be legible in the future -- could be made visible using fmri ?
do we really want to go that way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we go .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is in the process of thinking about questions of democracy .
in our efforts for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do our thing well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like for example , in iran , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to undergo a gender transformation in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago , who had brought a few siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i phones with him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be very poorly treated , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states offers incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are , without having to change around the state &apos;s will .
that &apos;s why i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to notice that i talked a lot about fathers .
and i want to think about the possibility of what democracy might look like , or what it might have looked like , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think , there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people use group thinking .
this is a map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to see if we can do this with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender disparity .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every one , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relationships and care for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my college advisers asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , so do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not a female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that &apos;s to say that there might be something , on average , which makes women &apos;s brains different from male brains , which makes us more attention to very complex social relationships , and more attention to caring for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get to about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely concerned about how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , if we take democracy beyond anatomy -- think less about the individual body in terms of identity and think more about relationships .
so that when we &apos;re trying to make a more perfect connection as people , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that is , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also photographing and blogging in the last time .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from the second hand on flowing markets and in second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe to the environment and also to my wallet market .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me purchase to my very personal chase .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
will i like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve been packing for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way to go forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and to ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i made a bet that i would find everything else that i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i &apos;ve found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i do that , i &apos;m going to tell you some of the lessons that i believe it or not , have learned from these adventurers to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable if you &apos;re wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i &apos;ve spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to make these really big molecules , which has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing clothes , or i remember their seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good at something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you briefly .
if you believe that you &apos;re inside and out there &apos;s a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rotate everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , that &apos;s not going to fit into my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn myself this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to emotionally arrest these things , because right around the corner there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s just waiting for me when i have a little bit of love in my heart and look for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a picture point , as a flying picture .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this , which happened in the formula 1 in the last few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , you need , if you want to win a race , you actually have something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that are coming out of the car , transmitting that information to the system , and then processing it and then using it to send back that car to change things in real time while information is being collected .
our steps in the digitization of life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems start to appear in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become a computer in the open .
and as a computer in the open , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but nevertheless , and our final point would now sit on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all this perceivation and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that organized paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; talk to me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have outside with our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo formed the moses , it means he took the hammer at the end and he threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you say ? &quot;
well , today , our environment is starting for the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started it 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start by perceiving it .
now the first project i want to introduce you to is actually one of the first of our lab .
it was born in italy four and a half years ago .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used around the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and to use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s being collected from the company anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world championship .
some of you will remember , it was when italy played against france , and then at the end of the zidane , the headscrap .
and anyway , italy won at the end of it .
now look at what happened that day , just in observing the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the river of tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline at the top .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of normal play .
first extension , second extension .
zidane , in a moment of the head .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the great impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the seven-team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
another example of feeling , this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know all about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that a mac computer is made of , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things that you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the garbage and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient systems in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new way of putting these little pieces together and correcting the mistakes .
but that happens a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day , the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can make a behavioral change .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about this , and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we were discussing at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it began with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they make something like a water curtain with water images .
if these images fall down , they can write on them , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to jump through it , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor to a hole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open and let it go in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can even let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , as in this case , you know , these days , when you drive down the roof , you get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
this is how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not getting wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , it was a lot of fun that night .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open to allow them to come in , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to now jump without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and that interact with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the imagery points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
so imagine these images could really start flying .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little image of changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , totally synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria began to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or irregular , in three dimensions where what changes is the light , is not the position of the images .
they can play with different kinds of ways .
imagine if the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then it could only be a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller coming down to form a smooth v as before .
if you turn on the light , it looks like this . so , just like we saw before .
imagine that every single person is controlled by people .
it could have a impulse of every single image that comes from people , from the movements of people or whatever .
i &apos;d like to show you a first thing here .
the viral particles were then released from the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery points , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use this as a possible pulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something that we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model exactly .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that we &apos;re bringing people back into doing something and changing the environment -- almost like what we call building a cloud movement in how to move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that anybody can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing about the events of the last few years , the last few decades , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , it can be to ask us the next challenges -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of imagery points , in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but it &apos;s covered with images .
you can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for the olympics of 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top of it , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light bulb in the night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for everyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about context .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was honored .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to figure out what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were racing about 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
ice mountains are born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and clam to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
when you look at an iceberg , you think very easily that they &apos;re isolated , separated , and alone , as we humans often see us .
but we wanted to go much further . we wanted to build an entire bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought we &apos;d build it in cassette tape the size of the virus that we could variate the size of the cassette tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its previous atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i take my footage of these iceberg , as if i make portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they exist in these individual moments , and will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information on the computer , this digital information really has to be flawed .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please notice the shape of the iceberg , and where it is in the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it takes about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like this , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was one error per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from running and he said , &quot; dad , my legs crybble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that .
tempt today is completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was facing him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and support his thing .
we followed the geneaology back eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it a little bit , they admitted that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in the resort . if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you hear the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to dissolve it .
i went to the place , and i went to his brother and his father -- saying , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that someone who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw it with a laser pointer that only registers the negative surface .
so they go around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the gender parts , and then the shrinks come , and then the bush-publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife at night and told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control things , we should find a way to control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve put unique elements in here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve reached some things .
first of all , we put the insurance in the doors , and actually , for tempt , got a device that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
also , we &apos;ve flown seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we would come back and all the images on the walls would have been graffitis .
but for more than two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach mall in venice , my kids got involved , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the beaches of venice , a little bit of copper wire and a few things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we put the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can make up .
no hospital .
any paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rummel before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and saturated nights , tony drew for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve tilted his bed so he can look outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
so , luckily , we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spraying scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i &apos;ve been pushed underwater , and finally someone has reached down and raised my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight cry .
that &apos;s what keeps us going , and keeps us going .
and we have to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic billboard the same .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to do it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve gotten all sorts of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that there &apos;s going to be an exhibition of this april in the downtown of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and probably there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty lost .
so basically , i &apos;m going to talk about this : if you see something that &apos;s impossible , then you make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with a generic technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should be asked by each of you every single day , and that is to tell you something that needs to be done . if not now , when ? and if not me , who , then ?
initially , we just signed .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most well-funded children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the juvenile toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the teacher &apos;s room .
it did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a phone call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman posting , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man i know that you &apos;ve found him in the meantime .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at them , we laughed , we cried , and we knew it had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight to their family because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to get to know me as an adult , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , that part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to recombine them , to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so happy that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needs the love and the pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine a plane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant that makes sound , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one to talk to the flight companions .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
it &apos;s not usually the route .
it turns off the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most frequent words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; make a sound ready . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a fear that life was going to end .
so i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned that day about me .
i learned that it &apos;s all different in a moment .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought of all the people i wanted to pass a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i noticed a phrase , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because when the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything more in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around haireswidth -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i was not arguing with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock starts to count , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; down .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you can see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly in the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re falling down , i had this feeling of dying man is not terrifying .
almost like we prepare our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i wish only one thing .
i just wish i could see my children growing up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called homologous recombination , which uses biology to repair dna that can put together pieces like this .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense of me .
i realized then , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is just about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , is my only goal in life to be a good father .
i became a miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine that the same thing happens on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to push , because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is three million rays of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important posting there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can combine the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually create a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can do it , a effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a waiting engineer to configure that gray box , we &apos;re in business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows-drone .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damage the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commissioned .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started doing our research six months ago , it was completely unknown , which was the point and purpose of this construction .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated , in terms of the windowse part , the dropper-part , he made countless zeroes of use .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
twelve to 24 hours later , everything was reconcile as it was .
it didn &apos;t make any sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized that this is a targeted attack .
completely targeted for a particular goal .
the drone strikes actively on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the specific program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if you don &apos;t , you don &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us- american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should better figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professional constructed by people who obviously had insider information .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the usage data is a science for yourself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from that attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was systems function calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what kind of animal they belonged to .
these organisms can be dry up , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timer and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could demonstrate or disprove .
in order to make these theories , let &apos;s remember that it &apos;s definitely highly sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and very likely it &apos;s in iran , because most infections have been reported .
now , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
it &apos;s basically going out to the bureaucracy nuclear power plant and the uranium incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually , let the centrifuge explode .
what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of the attack is actually to let it happen slowly and unmarvelously -- obviously in trying to make waiting engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind quickly .
the big digital head -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is really sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and i found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that &apos;s really well matched up .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by a couple of weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little springhead takes over a cascade , and flips the rotors and slows them down , and the big head comes with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s natance , and it &apos;s just navy .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a picture of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefe-mechanisms with the right design of the piece , we adapted them , and then we automatically put them together .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- has really taken me out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the sensing values of sensors -- so , for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still running during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the pursuit chase , the surveillance system is fed with video .
that &apos;s cool , right ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just to overlift the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overlift a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not a scanning electron microscope . it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power plant , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up deployment valves in milliseconds .
of course , it can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and when they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge in particular , with uranization .
so he would work just as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the use data on a usb stick , as we &apos;ve seen in stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
these are pictures over a six-second period .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to make the consequences , and we better start preparing ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , there &apos;s been a lot of reporting that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is cyberpower .
this is the publication that we &apos;ve just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last couple of years putting myself in situations that are normally very difficult and kind of dangerous at the same time .
i went to prison -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mine -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days not eating this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing myself to most of my career in terrible situations , and all i &apos;ve been trying to do is to look at social bias in a way that they &apos;re engaging and interesting , and hopefully in a way , understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
some of you may have heard that a couple of weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go again -- to buy the name rights of the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now , which didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and didn &apos;t give a lot of hints of what the topic was going to be .
so what you got was this : your name here presented : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and which you could end up flying around your ears after content , especially if i put your company in dumb for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people are watching these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you that with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i work on , my new film , we study the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty terrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arrange me to go to something as difficult and as dangerous as these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a film .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film is called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the great film ever sold , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely tagged with brands -- from the cover sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , this is the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing job when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalians and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we printed it at a scale of 10 and without distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more for emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever had , from &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , getting them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from the beginning to the end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
i don &apos;t know what people are going to be like .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; angle &quot; because this has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is required to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s worth sharing some really familiar brands anyway .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be extremely likely no .
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing about the film or a difficult thing about me ?
jk : both .
so , not so optimistic .
so , my lord , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as simple if you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another one in there , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with their film . &quot;
and just so all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
none of them wanted to do with the film .
i was amazed .
they wanted nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , make it as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaea bacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to another and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
see , if you put transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and look through it ; instantly , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species , and roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome , and we decomposed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes so far that it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange road .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole dish of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but since only one company , one agency , was willing to help us -- and it was just because i knew john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go straight to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends making big , giant hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends who make big , giant hollywood movies say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that this is the end , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
whenever i go on the way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe before the interview , you should put a little bit of this . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion , &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short story .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people are reminded of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
overlegendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone does under the hills .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of any place , adding thousands of characteristics in just a second to a species .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing system ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto normal consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
in order to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable faith in the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s changed at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
in the &apos; 80s , revival hits skate points , except for the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray sounds and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessories , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand 2 : the brand i am is , i would say , neglect flies .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that are actually digesting dna .
partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell sells all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand of failed alcohol addicted writing .
is that possible ?
anwalt : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tomb brand , but i often see myself at the interface of dark glamour and neglect flies .
and what i noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody to get in my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , fat , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for them , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures with them , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people that shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just a cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all these things come and start from a place , and for me they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is it about the thoughts and feelings about yourself ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are strange . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it get us ?
it was colored blue because of the genes that we had added .
what is the machete ? what stage are you in ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you than you are .
what more metamorphosis have you gone through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of it .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we have put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing that i saw was this idea that their brand personality separated two , but it has complimentary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight-step brand .
they &apos;re very good at adding up .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies are just going to focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- things that they &apos;re not sure of , they &apos;re going to avoid , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and this is a historical chess .
what other brands do they do ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can see it here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful one , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighty , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if someone asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
you have an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are you more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit quiet , reserved , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , out-of-the-box and lovely like erol flynn , agile , professional , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are they mindful and mondenial like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate , like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , sure , born , sacred , contemplated , and how the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by moving the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies who were up and down companies , and they said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but there were 17 brand partners who were willing to go on this control that wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and that eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t normally have told -- stories that a worker would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , the way we tell the story in this film , that you use mri today to get the pleasure centers of the brain , both to make advertising and movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , no evidence has been found for five years , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we went to school districts , where companies are in their way in impoverished schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i had the greatest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands have done .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think , that challenges our worldview .
and what was that like for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film was at the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
it &apos;s actually just a two-thirds of a week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
it hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new species building based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has acquired a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their clients to leave their fingers .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you get a chance , you take risks that are in those risks .
i think if you keep people from that , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you prepare the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that we need to encourage people to take risks as they move forward .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of what they might be scared of .
finally , in advance , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . embrace the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
there &apos;s a big spoon full of them , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc , who paid $ 7100 for the name rights on ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this : what exactly happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the height of $ 7100 to fund my ted performance the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i was talking about doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who is today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and their access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
so when i traveled , and i went to these museums , i started to learn a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six-and-a-half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i think i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that have happened since the beginning .
so you just go to googleartproject.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , is in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to get to the end of the gang .
just move on . a lot of fun .
you &apos;re sticking .
thank you , but the best thing is coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers of pieter breugel in the met .
i see this sign .
if the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click that away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you now .
you can zoom in very easily and zoom out .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep in .
and so i started playing around , and i realized there &apos;s something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i started to notice that these kids actually beat a little bit .
i did a little research , i talked to some famous people at met , and i actually found out that this is a game called squail , where a gans on the day of the day is beaten with a stick .
apparently , it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to get really close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you a look , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer this for nine .
the best part is still -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the brush strokes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh create this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture until i really am in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
they can go out and create their own museum online -- from all of these pictures , they can put their own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i created this , which is the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is the broadcast , in the national allery .
you can see everything with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what they feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing to me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come out of the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question that i &apos;ve been asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a picture of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that &apos;s going to land in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitutes of every hemisphere , we could map their brain .
for example , this person who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high apple that &apos;s in both hemisphere at the same time .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good share of logic to put the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good portion of intuition to actually do experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing at the same time can only be in a place .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor threshold .
he was another little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he fell all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you by , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with the ground swells , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you fly directly through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of that .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; you needed quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need it to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe that &apos;s because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with you , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why this shouldn &apos;t be .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and that of our imagination .
so i would feel very strongly about the whole thing if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do exactly that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
i &apos;m going to expand it a little bit . we &apos;re going to look right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these rapid synthesization methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal it &apos;s like a springboard formed , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicilia slices , and i racked it to all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i listen to all these things because i don &apos;t want to hurt them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that unmovable objects feel the same way .
the fellow drivers for non-movable objects are not just people , but also the light that seems to you and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by you and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted this piece of metal to behave mechanically , we had to kick out all the travelers .
and then we did .
we switched off the light , put it in a vacuum and sucked out all the air and cooled it up until almost now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of it just being quiet there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was something like this -- like a stretching and gathering bubble balg .
by giving him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that is only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you now is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean for an object at the same time to vibrate and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that are made of the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re dolphalized .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
this was worth closing in the clean room for all this year , because , check this , the massstable difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine , at the same time , you &apos;re in several places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s only only only selective selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production , and so on .
how would your consciousness relate to your body being delocated in space ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small room .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics say that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it than that . it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on that you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and work , they have the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that everybody competes for new residents .
at the moment , we &apos;re far away from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even a single city they would welcome to .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs them to build .
so we could make the world very easy with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just swap the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments did this already ; half of them haven &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you &apos;re going to get into , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid and to distract from the degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very difficult to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a completely new place , build a completely new block of living , assuming the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments are creating new surfaces that are providing enough space for a city and giving them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that about the same time , jafour and octavio have thought about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans could leave their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an undefeated area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy -- and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can they do anything on the surface of these messages , what do they normally have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a severe compression crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovations and simplicity .
he asked octavio to become his steady .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation of fuels .
by improving , trying and studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that there are already no need to disturb existing housing owners .
we &apos;re giving new technologies great attention , but for progress it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend of guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december in the hall of a hotel in miami .
i tried to make clear how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this chart to show you how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember , in some cases , a area is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art can produce .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you saw corn on ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk represented in a very simple form that a charter city is a place whose initially uninhabited country , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and that people have the opportunity to decide either to live under those rules or not .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we had to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another talk filled with facts , which has a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to make a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
just this airport has a 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans that if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
polite , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that are going to come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar scores , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the congress leader came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and you played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new opportunities to people .
there would be a way to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city includes new opportunities for leaders as well .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partner countries , which they would support in the histories of the laws for this charter and in the performance , that everybody could trust that the charter is really performed .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and suspicious for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact without further increases in the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as a source material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that are going to go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it sucks a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted with congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional rule that is reliable for special developmental areas .
in a country that has just been a massive crisis , congress has been elected for this constitutional change at 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved with 114 to a voice .
immediately after that election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center built in south korea -- big as the city rum bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first with the fourth generation fuel , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in building the city is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they already consider this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court as a court for the decent occupation of the legal system there .
and also urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one of the things that you already know has been explained , there are a lot of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to colonize in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say that they &apos;d like to live in a different place .
a million people are leaving latin america every year and migrating to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families back to look for work -- sometimes they are single mothers who have to make enough money to afford food and clothes .
unfortunately , it &apos;s sometimes even children who have tried to find their parents who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities competing for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that are attacked by a typical american on a day is 70 .
and also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they watched ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo were dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of your decisions did you need an hour or more of your time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category against the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you are at making the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern era , the decision-overlapping problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise because i &apos;m blind , only the hand if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the decision-overload problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store ; at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk water .
i loved going to this business , but at a time i was wondering , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day i decided to visit the filialler , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work for you to give people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her march gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it transforms co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we set up a little cookie right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade there , and we looked at two things : first , what would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there were more people standing there if it was 24 , about 60 percent , than if it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people bought more of a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people standing there when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people standing there when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than if they had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision-making problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we decide not to decide , even when it comes to our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to the production stores , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so the theme of the day : financial saving .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fonds that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , is the probability of more being saved for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a correlation .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that people offered anything between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the participatory rate was lower .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans , the two fonds , had a partial in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want it .
in the plans that almost 60 fonds offered , the participants now fell to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you &apos;re deciding yourself to participate , if there are more options to choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have more opportunities available to them , the more rent they are to choose acties and fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more opportunities they had available , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , belonging to the decisions that any of people would recommend when their future financial well-being is important to us .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in human beings that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re pushing , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to choose things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that we may enjoy these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparison and the boundaries and then actually choose something out of the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that less is .
you know , we have really -- moderate goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? a major source of energy .
people are always concerned when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more that if you &apos;re willing to constrain , and the unimportant equal opportunities are going to get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , there &apos;s a cost down , &amp; amp ; em &amp; gt ; &amp; lt ; / em &amp; gt ;
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of her 10 worst selling category streus , they found that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today gives you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today , is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that came to the market recently , about how to best mandate the choice , was something that david laibson has very strongly designed , it &apos;s a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff now automatically takes part in a life-time fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are going to be 20 fonds , not 300 or more fund .
you know , people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to restrict it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if their employees can &apos;t tell them apart , their customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer a single vacation to the most beautiful street in this audience .
here &apos;s a description of the road .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;ll give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;ll ask you to clap , if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always a year in the back , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
you knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i &apos;ve probably heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that they objectively had more information the first time than the second time , but i would dare to guess that they felt it the second time .
because the images made it feel real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by making recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , need to understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be felt vivid and concrete .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more on using an ec-map or a credit card than on barefoot ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel really money .
and it turns out that if you can make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so we did a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , and we did a study with the people at ing -- employees all working for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it was , just as we added a little bit .
the little thing that we added was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was a 20 percent increase in participation , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or increase by four percent in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can do better with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now be accelerated with the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and maybe eukaryontes .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine gang .
it turns out that in the abmans supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , the number is between 31 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you believe that i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 to that if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz &quot; and the other is called swing . &quot;
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people . our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the selector something that the choice has not provided .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you want to inform ?
my fourth technique : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave a introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to configure your car completely itself .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they offer per choice .
car color , outdoor color -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many ways , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 autocolors , many options .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re always using the standard choice in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing you .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low possible ponds are always voting over and over and over again the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the few choices to the many , stay with them .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is choosing , not telling me anything about my preferences in the interior , it &apos;s still preparing me to choose .
so it &apos;s so far . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 miles in diameter .
it also excites me about the great product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to motivate myself to be interested in it .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision-making -- limited -- get rid of the excess alternatives ; concrete it -- make it real ; categorize -- we can do better with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in the choice .
and the more we choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-managers on youtube . i look at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today , we want to talk about how video becomes viral , and then why it &apos;s important .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that there was no religious faith in sub-saharan africa , and of course there was one , and voodoo is just the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinite .
but web videos have enabled us to all , or all of our creative activities , to become terribly famous in a part of the culture of the world .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded per minute .
again , just a tiny percentage ever becomes viral , and it &apos;s being looked at thousands of times , and at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , partial communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
whoa , whoa !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this chart shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because this is what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine underneath geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t think we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos;s &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was almost 200 million times looked at this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other tips are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 did it , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was a first one to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared a big audience , and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big joke , and started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
there was a parody for every single day in the first seven days .
unlike the one-way conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
i &apos;m working on this . he &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters in the width , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was almost 50 million times viewed .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that is in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction , so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure from something we do .
who could have looked at this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what are the scripts that you could have written in that kind of thing ?
in a world where every minute or two days of video is uploaded , only really can emerge unique and unexpected as the videos i mentioned .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to watch this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against the ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike , but there are often disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
because this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at his idea and his argument five million times .
this approach applies to everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
and all of this leads us to a big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and where the audience determines popular .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- made his beginning on youtube .
nobody has to give their ideas green .
and today we all feel like we are also owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the entertainment of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man to burn his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
hold it to the invoke of the communist in saigon , how he has to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , now mount his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken through history .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to squeeze us , but we were missing it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early dawn red in sea .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for them , life had asked her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and film series of saga , a boat slipped silently onto the sea as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put all the way around the lhc , and then , intentionally , collided with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear they were afraid of pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
in a prisoner &apos;s take , my sister and i would have drunk her and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of any wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death courage of men on our boat , or the waste of the engine that six hours didn &apos;t want to start .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple has ever tasted like this again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations that together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we settled in footscray , one of the working-class inhabits , whose population is immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle-class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the smells from the shrimp came from the rest of the world .
and the fat of broken english were traded between people who had one thing in common : they started again .
my mother was working on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to get english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and it was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to get for it , and most of the time , the new stuff that was always coming from the second hand .
two piles for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this generated the biggest lever , or this , when someone visited the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; slight eye &quot; and here and there are transformers : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something went up in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother was suffering from the boat with nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came to wake up .
she opened up a computer business , then made a cosmetic education and opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and unflexible , and carefully filled children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides science .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who made unquestionable demands on her own .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe lives that had tragic scars of violence , of drug abuse and isolation .
but that &apos;s how many people got help over the years .
and because of this help , in my last year of law school , i was chosen as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece to the next piece , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , invited to places that she had never heard of , and in homes that she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters , who every one of their days closed as they &apos;ve been for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no had never been a chance .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about adolescence and education , and the neglect of marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine is running for high-performance .
i met people in all of their lives , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the boundaries of the possible .
and although i graduated from college , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , in the picture -- and not just okay , but something to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve gone out of my comfort zone now to know that , yes , the world is collapsing , but not the way you fear it .
opportunities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and guilt .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me for whom the shoe blade &quot; is not &quot; an inconsistent challenge .
now , the engineers among you are going to look at you and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i was cooking a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked until late in the night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant ones , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to go to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i had moved , and the adventure went on .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become so-called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother was raising her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
with no support of her husband , she worried about a sensation by bringing him to court and advocating in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go &quot; turned out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to pass .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the space between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories , and we made sure we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm , and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding it this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you see who we were , and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to the top of us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections between more than a thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory turtle .
now i &apos;d like my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of judgment .
can i give you a bug in your life that courageously defies every wave , the unbiased , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this , and i could make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is here today in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and in doing so , the wires are slightly heating and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountering electrical resistance .
yet , my interest in photography began when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my former preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because using the camera , in fact , the process was in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could .
so i wanted to create something else , something that the process starts when the trigger is pushed .
photos like this : a building site along a lot of the road .
but it has an unexpected turn .
and yet , it keeps a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones gave birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have , in a picture .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made on a two-dimensional surface .
now , this is even more amazing if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
so i think the basics are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks like it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re checking our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but if we combine pictures , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong in some way .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot out of the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images begin and end by connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , adding photographic disorders , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single picture , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to have a compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we repaired them , we repaired them .
and yes , i &apos;ve even colored the house on the top of the island red to make it look swedish .
so to get a realistic result , it goes from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
after that , it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you make good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and it can be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects are missing .
and i think the most important point is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all on their way back now .
and one of the things that we introduced at bike boud university was to hire a main listener .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it puts a cup of coffee or tea , and it asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how is it going ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everybody -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button on / out .
and every morning i &apos;m going to jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc is going to work again .
and they &apos;re also called off by my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiology or something , but also with a view of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i &apos;ve got over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump to my wlan-waage , and people talk to me before i sit in the car , &quot; better for lunch , just a little salt today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group compulsion , group compulsion , to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to smoke patients .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play together some kind of game in order to better control their health .
it comes to the market next week .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , and share it with others , for example , a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in . they can not only take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect first data to collect in june or july , and we &apos;re going to continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make ways that are easy to use and start hugging patients on the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked them , and nobody knew .
well , of course , in a way , the debates are once again to reject the value of science and engineering at such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so , what did we do ? we crowdsourced in the netherlands .
we built a website , and we asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please tell us where it is , &quot; because sometimes it &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and in the next few weeks , your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this not only as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits , is the value of things like the lhc .
and we &apos;re asking our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone &apos;s collapsing , whether it &apos;s your own relationships or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
they could be curidge services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us do that , and try to not just improve health , but take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... give it to crowdsourcing attention .
the spirits can be put up from under the great water , answers to the rhythm of the dance , to move the soul of the living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a brief shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , when he defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind as to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumphs are full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be loaded .
now -- we can just jump this -- i &apos;ll just jump the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is almost everything that they actually hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the geeky peacekeepers .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city management .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to rathuters .
and they developed great apps , working with urban workers .
but what they really do is to show what is possible today with technology .
so you meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freaked him up when he &apos;s in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at fighting a fire when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , and we had the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never releases these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a guy named erik = els-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were free-riding the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agree to him freely when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , someone can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it spreads very rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who has seen that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them to get people to open up the burial sticks when it &apos;s snowing .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread frictionlessly , organically , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you don &apos;t usually know it &apos;s going to work that way .
the complaint of software is usually a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months for three people .
it was about a method that parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that has cost the taxpayer two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spreads from rare , is a kind of shot in front of the bug on the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sales institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and this is a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america , &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people around the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with it , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , recent things have happened in my life and my career , which has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake in the workforce and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we can &apos;t do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power -- remember , &quot; we are the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was all about choosing people into a office .
now after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities , especially about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called the playground , pray , love -- that , unlike all of my previous books went out to the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually get out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government because of many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this anfruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open up all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is going off ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacine .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m being treated as if i was refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the new urban mechanics office in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- this came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them out ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but the citizens connect is all public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- the demise !
turned the trash can on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacines . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital meets the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get government crowdsourced .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government here played a central role .
they connected these two people .
so the voodoodooists like to say , &quot; your white goes to church and talk about god .
for example , you &apos;re very concerned about me , and you say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear that you &apos;re never going to overcome that success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we will strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about this is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , to reflect our values and to meet our needs , and then not much has changed ?
this is because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top five inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with this kind of contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write your whole life on and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that we have , and that we pay for , that makes something that works against us , something else , and then we made ourselves .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the government machine .
so the occupythesia movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of concerned citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the legislation of finance reform .
that &apos;s not being politically active , that &apos;s bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave our children .
okay , that &apos;s really encouraging .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges they have to face .
do we really believe that we need to achieve what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to promote the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems that are right .
now the average age of our field is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that has grown up seeing its voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting for who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion , on any channel at any time , and you can do it .
so , if you &apos;re faced with the government problem , don &apos;t worry so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember , over 20 years ago , when i first told a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , faced with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
this could be to open up a hydrant , hunt uncranes , turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do that .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid not to succeed ? &quot;
usually my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up will be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can hardly keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single , boring slide .
... could you just show the slide for a moment .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general form .
this slide shows a data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like so many others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of straight on a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
don &apos;t you worry that the humiliation of a statement is going to kill you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights again .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw a little bit on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , the timeline of a way , and this is a random measure of technology that i want to show you with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology was going as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re going to go on this handle and never come out of it , and you &apos;re going to die on a junkyard dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it doesn &apos;t go that fast .
this has never been around in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , which has been increasing exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you can see they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything goes on forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
it &apos;s either going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
it &apos;s kind of like that .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s really the case , it means that we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the current world to a new kind of world .
something like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is slowly adopting ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was the future somewhere in 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now here we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we don &apos;t go further than that .
so in other words , the future has been shrinking every year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for this is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense right now to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple math of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make any sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is , yes .
so i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do that , i &apos;m going to talk about some other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we have to step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on earth &apos;s time scale .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story of that , which is that , at that time , little oil droplet would smash around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contained a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started dividing .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t about alive in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a little , random prescription of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so every droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so these tend to survive longer , and they multiplied at a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interestingly , when these droplet droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t quite understand , these droplet has learned the ability to write information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , in this spiritual , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information is stored over the course of 2.5 billion years that it &apos;s been created stayed the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , the exact same code and the same type of writing .
and each being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that we can only write in this code for pleasure .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white pulse that i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security staff .
this is -- what i did is i took this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i amplified it 10 times .
so if anybody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everybody in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the dedication of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m much more afraid of things that nobody would know .
and that &apos;s what made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities of cells emerged .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , and that meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals in the community were more often repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which act together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other terrifying things .
in fact , we are such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level on which evolution was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step happened within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that didn &apos;t do anything but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing device that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i wonder , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning happened within the period of time of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than over this evolutionary period of time .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a certain fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas before that , hundreds of thousands of years of this information had been taken , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could be within a time model of learning .
what happened after that was that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
once for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
i mean , it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , unordered and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving grunting sound to me , hoping to create a similar idea in your head that has a certain kind of similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this now allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cell organisms have gone through -- presenting the abstraction of our methods of holding data , processing it .
for example , the invention of language was a little step in this direction .
telephone , computer , video obstacles , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle that information .
and it connects all of us together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that someone should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel they &apos;re working on ?
you &apos;ve also seen tys &apos; little evolutionary example of where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolsion program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve accelerated the time scales again .
the first steps of the story that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds on itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other jobs don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current work is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connections machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers do at thinking machines , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , that &apos;s what the machine is doing , and the machine is doing something that is far beyond our skills , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand so far .
one method , which is particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install a process of evolution in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these randomly elected instructions , run all of the programs , and eventually choose the ones that i have the next . &quot;
so in other words , i define first what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , which is a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for .
so , find programs that can get the most numbers .
of course , the chance of randomly elected instructions is very small that by accident , they &apos;re going to have numbers , so i don &apos;t think any of the instructions will actually do this .
but one of them may , if you &apos;re lucky , put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that i &apos;ve got the closest to my prescriptions .
store that one , erase the rest .
now , all the rest of the ones that the numbers have best reproduced .
it &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how are you doing it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluate it again .
maybe run some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can have evolution run through a computer for millions of years in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly arrange numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they were doing the job right .
i used to sit in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he comes up with a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &quot; this plane is made up of hundreds of thousands of pieces that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; don &apos;t you make it more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we start to rely on computers for a process which is very different from the classic engineering system .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists , over the centuries , have not gotten the reputation of alcohol &apos;s manic depressed people .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibility of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re using these programs now to make computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies of today are feeding on themselves .
we take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point that &apos;s analog to that time , as a single-celled organisms , have evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite do what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this call , mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the ancient indian epos , &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at the time , we would jump into a car and swirl across the sky .
now we do this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , the young and often died of your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior had arjuna durst , he took a bow , he came out in the ground and water .
now we do this with drilling and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years of old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirate and unhappy ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our send clocks and cameras were keeping us from dreaming .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the technology world to see how i could use it to make magic rather than killing .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and out of me is becoming a figure in the book .
every once in a while , a letter for me falls down -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found very exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and drop out the fireflies .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they were lighting the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be in a single marble .
and so every book and every world here becomes a little marble that i &apos;m dragging here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows itself in other places in the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even , when we hear someone say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , somehow we &apos;ve incorporated the notion that creativity and suffering somehow belong naturally , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymph , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years , in an old bold book .
and we bring them back , in a contemporary story for children .
a story that deals with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the issue of environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search . you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out and take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everybody here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree tree .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways to connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen fills with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we &apos;re all moving towards a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with just one centimeter away -- i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and us closer to the natural world and to the magic and fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in research , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in the social settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized that ted has an identity .
you can say things here that are affecting the world .
and sometimes , when something comes about ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it otherwise wouldn &apos;t have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good things , but as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a tranceutical state , accommodating the glowing coal without burn , an astonishing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in such a way that it is when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them take over to the next century .
she was also the starting point of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as a slave .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery really shaped her world .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could hardly breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said yes , she left me alone .
she was something that she did , that you always wanted to be near her .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative heritage .
the only problem was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running all over the place .
i remember i had to be eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
it went like 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me by the hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that it would be , for me , very dangerous to start this dark path of suspection , sort of , down -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me outside and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honor ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down , and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know that i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , let me tell you that you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next thing , i &apos;m going to tell you that you &apos;re going to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing .
i thought , &quot; yeah , grandma . i promise . &quot;
she finally said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise it . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack beer with grabbed my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we just switched around like we did .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer , and he offered my sister one , and she accepted , and then she offered one to me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . we do it today , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked me in the face and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still doing crazy about the conversation with grandma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that all i &apos;m going to write from now on is valued by the world as the work that came after my last book success , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drank a drop of alcohol .
i don &apos;t say that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i say that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all your grandchildren , they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in prison during prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncle died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the issues that we should care about .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in advocacy and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are abandoned on currency or with conditional exposure .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population are desperate and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one in three male black from 18 to 30 is in prison , abandoned in the prison , or with conditional exposure .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , in indulgence or in conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that treats them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be very happy with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at 9 o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling out the right to vote when they &apos;re punished .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we &apos;re projecting that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honor rights will be as high as before the election of the election law .
the silence is obscure .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , there are lifelong sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i would like to continue doing this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught to be the real question : did a human being deserve to die for a crime that he has ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other way to think about it is not : did someone deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we found innocent , that was deposited and discharged from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique sound of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , they were the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anybody fly with an airplane if for nine planes that are going to take off , one is going to fall off .
but somehow we can get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i &apos;m teaching my students african-american history . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , all the way to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
now these older people come to me and say , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re giving talks . they &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in our nation &apos;s history , we have to do with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with this . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the race race and decades of rapidly motivated surrendering and apartheid .
and yet , there &apos;s a dynamic in our country -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a safe distance between me and my very natural climb about what the reaction is going to be like to the writing .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand the meaning of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that racing is not overcoming without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists got up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there is no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , it can never be there . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they may have had better or more reasonable ideas about how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became completely silent . and then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we will ever speak up for systematic killing people .
it would be unconscious of us , consciously and targeted to make people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state made people set up , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher if the victim is white , than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , if the complained black and the victim knows -- in the same states that the body is in which the body is bored .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are affected as well .
this search led me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but after all , these realities are over-shaded by suffering , abuse , heart deployment , limitation .
it seems to me that it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we end up talking about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to pass in a complex world .
to me , that means bringing time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe , at the end , things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development , is not just coming out of our minds .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-hearted connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chief politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted all kinds of things . but the thing we needed the most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities also have to engage in .
there is no boundary of technology and design that allows us to be completely human , unless we also have eyes and ears of poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch you deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting rosa parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white man whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women were meeting and just talking .
every once in a while , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , woman parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much like . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so refueling .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; well bryan , tell me what the &quot; initiative &quot; is for equal right .
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine dienery spirit that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the crimination system .
we want to make lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to abolish mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine dienery spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned in front of me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and that &apos;s why you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be braille .
we need to find ways to tackle these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a few very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
it was known by socrates that he believed that he had a demonstration that he had refused from far away .
if someone takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that &apos;s the case , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that although it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not in the things that we &apos;re developing , not in our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we start to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . a story at the end .
the offspring of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain , and as a result , the conquest of this people removed to an isolated volcanic massive rise above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of bodless creative mind , a kind of a ghost .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas ahead of our thinking , in a very important way .
i represent these children who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who is supposed to be an adult in court .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also have some wishes .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this assignment , and the headline was , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that misconduct of the prosecution and the police and policy errors were considerable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that there &apos;s only misconduct .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i had not only written it , but sent it to the court .
a few months went forward , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine that was believed to be literally living in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and would sort of help the artist work and make the result of the work .
i went to the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i was going up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came up to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual , to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and deputy prosecutors and office workers .
in the hands of the court was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial output in the courthouse and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge quit a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , which disturbed it that the janitor was in the courthouse room .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is widening far , but that justice is increasing .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we &apos;re not completely developed as humans , as long as we don &apos;t care about human rights and basic values .
that our all survival is linked to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want to just say to those of you who see this as well , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen an obvious wish in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard , to help you and to do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a national decision that &apos;s going on this spring that &apos;s actually about trying to get a effort to get some of the money that &apos;s going into the politics of the punishment .
here , in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all fatalities don &apos;t end with a arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t look at it all for you , and everybody knew that you had this unbodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
there &apos;s a chance to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
in the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context of the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of crimes of violence has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country has not really happened in the class of violence .
it was the misguided cruise against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
so the dramatic high levels come in the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of a little good , rather than you force them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a punishment , not less .
and i think that our current philosophy of punishment doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string here .
they are an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death is a increased risk of risk .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit of a laugh .
speaker 2 : famine in somalia . anchor spray of the police .
speaker 4 : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
speaker 8 : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . standstill . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media prefer to show us negative issues , because our minds give attention to these very issues .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of every day , our senses are capturing much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we don &apos;t care more than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it &apos;s sorting and coming through all the information in search of any kind of evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand &quot; is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices that seven days a week , 24 hours a day , put all these negative messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks that the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spain .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
perhaps the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces so strong that in the next three decades we will be able to create a world of surplus .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , species dying , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so that we can anticipate development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has tripled inflation in the average income of the world &apos;s population .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and also , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have declined a lot .
steve pinker has shown us that we live in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate in the last 130 years has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re constantly increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , climate conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of it is technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes information technology makes a big leap on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s thousands of times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , people hear this or this artist call a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law for the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , in bad times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it &apos;s not slowing down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite her logarithmic trajectory on the left , she &apos;s walking upwards .
so growth itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something that my friends call &quot; infinite-computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production to democratize on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was a great thing .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human enemies . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i here at ted started a new university called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year we ask students to create companies , products and services that can be positive in a decade , the lives of billions of people .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to give you a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on this planet ; i &apos;m about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating force .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold bribes .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
aluminum at that time was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and platin .
this is why the dome of the aluminum monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass is occupied , it &apos;s not as pure metal .
it &apos;s associated with oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , bounce onto the surface of the earth .
this depicts and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity ; the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
in this year , for the first time , you &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
solar power costs fell 50 percent last year .
last month , this has published a study that shows that by the end of this decade , in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents on national average .
and if we have an energy surplus , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager-space vehicle in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , there &apos;s 97.5 percent of saltwater , two percent of it is ice , and we &apos;re fighting about 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of do it yourself , i &apos;d like to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his engineering , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the dorm .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a liter .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything is going well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technological innovation that we have today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
you know , i mean , we &apos;re going to get to the 70 percent decline in mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just consider that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you look for your smartphone on google , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could ever have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spend a couple of thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photos , libraries of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally getting dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what &apos;s expected to us in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing , with the qualcommand foundation , the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can check in or test your blood levels .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the burden of disease and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
when this device sequences a rnage or a dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls out the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of surplus .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re moving forward from two to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education to priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe to go back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic benefits in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , never before heard .
how about giving the oppressed , wherever you are , a voice , to pay attention to it and to create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really excited me .
there &apos;s a program that some people might know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just erase rational humanism from 500 years of thinking in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that nowadays , human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , not a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant in a rehab clinic at night , and was the best protein orator in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we now have more power than individuals to face the big challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of the techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to address the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply fatty magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time enough time to allow me to give up a piece of my own wrong prestige to do this .
but before i get to the actual topic of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season end , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon and turns around statistics and to use these to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player certainly beat three out of 10 strokes .
that is to beat the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and if you tried to throw the ball to the first base , you couldn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what you call a 3,00ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
do you know what you call a 4,00ter ?
this is actually someone who is safely hitting four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable or maybe a little less comfortable with what i &apos;ve been talking to you about .
suppose you have a blindfolding inflammation , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness inflammation .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart vessels , and your home doctor transfers that to a cardiologist whose average performance is at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we send each one of them , including me , out into the world with the claim to be perfect .
no one ever makes a mistake , but no one &apos;s thinking about the details of how to do this .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a bluttest .
and it was .
and i learned in my little roof chair in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely crazy mobility of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomy lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubuläre azidose .
and all the time , i collected more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated from cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i resisted a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency workers were looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patients .
a process that , as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everyone here -- doesn &apos;t always feel rational .
and giving feedback to my top doctor .
i studied woman printer , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made very keen sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from consistent heart failure .
this is a state where the heart is failing , instead of pumping the whole blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung and filling it all up , so the short-term came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis to do .
i put them on the side , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water tablets , so they leave the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started feeling better .
in fact , sometimes he can feel really paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my top doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the audience , and i did what i should have been , which would have been a phone call in my top doctor to explain it to him , so that he had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was doing this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the depths of the glacier for 18 years . two periods of nine , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they were living in the lap of their simple mother , they now spend metamorphic in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all of her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she said she was going to feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
so that i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me that tried to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacked by self-confidence that i asked the nurse who was taking care of women &apos;s printers , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
so i signed the abandoned papers and a ambulance and rescue assistant came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car , when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency room on my way home .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there was another nurse , not the sister who had seen a woman printer , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are afraid of this as well , but emergency care is especially because we only see the patients in such a volatile way .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
the nurse was actually asking .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a 50 blood pressure , which is a dangerous shock condition .
she barely breathed and ran blue .
that would roll over the country to them .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure increase .
they hooked them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked and tied into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that it would never wake up again .
she had a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they got to the shooting .
the other day , they had her go -- a woman , a woman , a mother and a grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the beaver .
they say that you can never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i was hoping , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s price , even though that one swells up on a conspiracy , and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it and gives you a terrible discussion when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swore that you never make that kind of mistake again .
if you make a resurrection and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about it is the one that makes you intrinsically sick .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that in such a moment , she could only do one , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely it was .
i started feeling better .
and then on a admired day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and maybe i could feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never made a mistake again , the voice could be mutilated .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was all about the fact that she had to get quickly enough to a piece of paper and a pencil , so that she could catch it through her and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room at a community hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a full rake .
it was a lot going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rake , and it was a little bit pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin , and i sent him away .
and even as he walked out of the door , he pointed out on his revenge .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief asked me to have a conversation in her office .
and she said the three words : remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through it , and she missed it . she said it would move across land and , as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature revenge ? &quot;
it turned out he had a streptococcccccus infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rachens , it &apos;s the upper respiratory pathway , and it causes the conclusion of the respiratory pathways .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intrasible antibotica , and he recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated and went rough to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency room , i &apos;ve been missing a blindfold twice .
there &apos;s a lot of this already , especially if you think you &apos;re working in a hospital that at that time only had 14 patients per night .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there were probably no shortcomings in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
when i had one , i thought he had kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague found a hardening in the revision of the patient in the lower right sector and called the operators .
the other one had a strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluide to rehydrate it and asked my colleagues to review it as well .
and he did that , and when he found a hardening in the lower right-hand sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they had surgery , and they were fine .
both cases were coming up to me , and they were asking me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but is total nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then she said -- it was like she grabbed it with her other hand , and she grabs it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish my mistakes and talk about them , if i can talk about the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach them my mistakes , so they don &apos;t make the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard of someone talking about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , they go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about their own mistakes .
if i was going to go to a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support and start telling them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before they were really uncomfortable , anybody would come up with a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i or my colleagues knew that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me , i had trouble looking at him in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a totally denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them , the ones that constrain sleeping deprivation and the ones that have no constraints , the bad results and the good results .
she caught the poem on his tail and pulled it back into her body and took it to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we put those who make mistakes out of medicine , we have a secure system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical trial on medical errors and wrong treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first articles that i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that errors are absolutely inconvenient .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors happen every day , where one in 10 medications is either a wrong or wrong dose , where hospital infections are getting more and more and more and more angry , or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians are dying of common errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine decides the number at 100,000 .
both of them are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t really look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all the time , they are culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that keep the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two or three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathology course for a patient with a breast pain .
and then i take the same patient with breast pain , and i sweat it and i sweat it and i give it a slightly alcoholic breath , and suddenly the story is with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of these things are inevitable .
so if you take the system as i &apos;ve been taught , and you take all the miserable health workers , there &apos;s no one left .
when i heard that , i thought that was uncanny -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know about people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would go to everybody from the rescue assistant to the boss of the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i would show the microphone to him .
and then their pupils are expanding , they &apos;re bumped in front of their head , and then they &apos;re looking down and swallowing hard , and they &apos;re starting to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that makes them capable of doing that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white to make his humanity , accepts her , is not proud to make mistakes , but put everything out of them to learn so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process -- i &apos;m not the channel .
it supports other people to talk about their mistakes .
and it shows others their mistakes , not to make sure , but in a loving , supportive way , so that all of them benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s the case , people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups , which make it easier to make mistakes , make people inevitable , and make it as possible to create loving , supportive spaces in which anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potentially errors and even reward for it , and particularly for people like me who are making mistakes and rewarding for the gratification of those .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the new defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
but i &apos;m unfortunate , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass on .
i don &apos;t know what you think i am , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . to be able to work every day , i have to stand up and sweat at at the same time , get tired and get really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories earlier to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was hunting finks , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the 1980s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my masonry species , sometimes this thing has stumbled .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos , or from other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still in the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to tell you a different concept , the transformative wastebasket .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really wasn &apos;t from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a couple of mangroves was surrounded .
there were bunches of about 20 centimeters , black mouth brothers , an underspecies of the buntbarian .
the fisheries of these bunches were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on average , and deserved very well in ghana .
when i returned to that 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they &apos;re grown five centimeters .
they had been genetically depressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came through a source of me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also fortunate to be there .
so it didn &apos;t change , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells you about my co-creation in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather early &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fishery promotion meant countries that started 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on to that , and we made elevations all over the southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
now i know it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubble , the rubber pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came to deck and was then thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition is very fast .
within a year , you do a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case -- a hard reason or a soft coral becomes a masher crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we started a life .
she hadn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of wreckage is collected every time by fishermen , when they go to areas where they &apos;ve never been fished .
and how do we relate to that without losing our minds , but actually keeping ourselves in mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adjust our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life as a standard and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , they just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s our goal now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem was to people who were certainly living in predatory societies , killing animals , and who , after a few generations , became aware of what they had done .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a common preceding animal .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a big loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they become less rare because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out of the way , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise , and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to rape on the hands of the amazingly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they &apos;ve learned in abstract magnificent glory , and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really like i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist , who tried to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and to deal with them .
over time , little fish are left , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
the question is why people accept this .
well , because you don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , a lot of people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there &apos;s , for example , the anecdote that the report of a capita , who was watching big fish profiles in this area , can &apos;t be used , or fishery scientists normally can &apos;t be valued , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the tremendous role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and everything changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color sound and the shadows might remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by this -- except for the pocahontasian story , why were they so touched by the imagery world ?
because it calls out something that has been lost in a certain way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , to turn &quot; avatar ii &quot; under water .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often inspiring , is very difficult for him to grasp , and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans afterwards , but he can &apos;t grab them .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason : the government could track back where a text came from .
if they found an article with false thought , they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we couldn &apos;t understand in the west how anyone could do that , and how much that would limit freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow blobs on each side , in a pattern that clearly retraces the page to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the existing online problems today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money from attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb up this old climb in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked from this song to forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjorn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve illegally acquired it by using trojans , for example , to steal money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency , two months ago , fror , the swiss account of mr. jain here , and on this account , 14.9 million dollars , when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i would argue that today it &apos;s more likely that we will become victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not going to do it .
the second largest attack group we can see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , like , an opinion , or by their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main group of influences : criminals who do it for the money , hackactivists like anonymous , who do it , but the last group are nations , governments who run the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete netherlands certificate -- or it was .
in the last fall , it had to sign insolvenz , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the senior leaders of this group the question of whether he could do it because of the diginotar hack people had died .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in consequence of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate needs , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can do it when you get into a foreign .
hacking certification agencies and putting out fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 was the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , notes were a local company in germany that sold the egyptian government a few programs that they -- in very large scales -- could capture any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program to the egyptian government for 280,000 dollars .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojaner , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to peel their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty much safe to tap your phone .
he just looked into the sky and said , &quot; sorry , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
but today we &apos;re far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojaner to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy has to be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a choice between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may be familiar with our governments , every right that we &apos;re abandoning is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we blind to any future government , a government that we may have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first block of concrete stones were made in 1868 and came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measurements that fit together .
concrete blocks became the most used building unit in the world very quickly .
they gave us the ability to build things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one brick at a time .
basically , the concrete block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out of this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connected stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s been estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on this planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everybody .
lego basically took the concrete block , the world &apos;s building block , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at the bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squawks someone else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect to magnets .
you can &apos;t put them wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawks of leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
they put a blue one on a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsary , which is here , and you made a little blinker .
add this buzzer to an additional effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wire or solve , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn that button , and it makes the pulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , notes , solar panels , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children and seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that you have in your everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we &apos;ve also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had , for example , designers with no experience whatsoever in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just carton , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a movement controlled confettic cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a bumblebee of play-dough that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everybody .
so , littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing it .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climb that surrounds him was picked up when he took the genius out , where he had nothing but anger and left him back to where he came from , so to speak , and he realized it had no internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , miraculous , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the stranger , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed a little bit of the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of writing , pray , love being , and i fell into one of the graves of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start thinking it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is going to be the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think that i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered tom talking in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took a look at the manuscript , and i talked about my comment towards a blank corner of the room .
i said , &quot; listen , you know , you &apos;re listening to this thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ? &quot;
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then the hell with that .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i &apos;d like to leave you with protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end of the day , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened : one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like that in your life .
it was as if the time was standing still and the dancer was kicking through a kind of pforte , and he didn &apos;t do anything but he had ever done it before -- 1,000 nights before , but everything came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared human .
it was illuminated from the inside and illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what it was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , god , god , god .
this is god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moars were conquering south spain , they brought this practice . the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , olé , which you still hear in a fight and flamenco dancing .
whenever we think about innate and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old smell of noble wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought , or on the other hand , thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer wearing a fifth of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe it &apos;ll never go back to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name again when he rotates , but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite as full of pure if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you think you &apos;re just a loan -- from an unthinkable source of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about this , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they being weighed by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i certainly think in the last few months , working on the book , which is going to appear soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly expected successor of my descendants .
what i have to say to myself all the time , when i get crazy about this , is , don &apos;t worry .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is to dance , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you have to choose on the side , for a moment , to show a smoke of wonder by your efforts , then the olé !
and if not , still dance your dance .
and guess what ? for you , despite all that .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of space in the malaria swamp of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , formed a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth itself can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
for you , just for being there , you know , just for having the mere human love and the self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had shrunk the size of the lower 48 states by 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t really express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is labeled with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood that flows out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because global warming is looking at the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s looking , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the whole amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we transcend this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane of itself , is in the water .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled to another group of work to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re all right . the question is , how are we going to get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat bulb heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-spirit that determines his or her destiny will become a whole other person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be carried off .
this is an annual seawater flow .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through the land ice sheet here , it flows into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly accelerating .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice sheet .
and the west antarctica , which has appeared over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is equivalent to 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes up there that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of the mind or a bunch of error , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from that melting water .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away too .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the storage basins .
and the predictions , as you &apos;ve read them , are serious .
this aurochs all over the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes around the world have taken a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent before .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting metaphor is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day in the oceans .
take a look at the realm of the eastern pacific , the american continent west and both beyond the indian subcontinent , where there &apos;s a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be bathed .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal industry and oil industries have spent a quarter billion dollars last calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i was running around at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you seem to have seen it in the news .
this is all over our country the second largest waste river in america .
this happened at christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry at christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps us grow our economy .
this made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are located in hukuk and the curved heavens and the cannibalic spirits that live in the northerners of the world , spirits that they would be involved in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man is going to clean every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers remain in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly : al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , a part of her .
at the coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
that &apos;s why we set ourselves to the top line of spending a significant amount of money on the way to get an advertising to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and also smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , the burning of coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here , changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean coal-fired technology today .
finally , the positive alternative mixes with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , different ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i took just last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon , like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
utility america with 100 percent clean electricity , within the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution big enough to solve our problems .
new america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a recovery of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are causing our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
new america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african adage : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , very quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid when you were playing with building blocks .
while they realized how to reach and grab the hands , take the blades and move them , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is tightly connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my professional patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we used computers , which , instead of a mouse time , moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and put it in the way we want it to ?
this question was so tangible that we decided to explore the answer and developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved with their hand , they can sense each other , they can detect their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , it &apos;s physical why you can only move it like building blocks by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop a conscious of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the enemies of our process , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;ll start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video recovery , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , it makes you interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the indians , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to realize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we configure three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can put a little back .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i do with a simple equality program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every sidewalk at random , and as you try to make words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanoma , how you snuff this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you &apos;re remixed , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about this kind of application is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out that he just wanted the siftables to stack .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
sniff this powder is kind of like being shot out of a guns run , annihilated by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickfilm maneuver .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by highlighting the siftable from the table that shows this figure .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor in the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not created a distortion of reality , it &apos;s the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story of open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performance , which we &apos;ve recently developed , and in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you put them in by just holding a ton siftable to a sequencing table .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filter .
you connect it to a particular sound , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who could not arrange the psychedelic ethiopia with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t arrange these tryptamins as hallucinators , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then even more superior effects like speed and volume , which you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put the leadership in two sequencing siftable , put it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i add a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums about this .
and now i connect the filter with the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one way or another .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter to the barrel , for a little bit more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i can prolong them or shorten them .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because they &apos;re naturally occurring through a human intestine , called monoamine oxidase .
and then finally , i can shut down the whole sequence by bending the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better with how our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways we work on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of tools to interact with digital media , which bring information to our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversations with all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy to be there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be connected to some other chemicals that are denaturizing the mao .
i have to take a little bit of that , which is that biohacking is just about modern molecular biology .
i study molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been working on biohacking for a few years now , and that &apos;s what i started because i just wanted to know more , and i wanted to do it myself , which i learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology is generally speaking , so in general , biotechnology , everything you count on , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , now , is extremely important and much , much more important in the future .
there are so controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there are now craig venter in the u.s. , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are things that are totally aware of in the everyday world , which most people are not aware of , like washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry , are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which is in the liane , are mao inhibitors of exactly the kind that is necessary to power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest in this technology , i just went further into it .
now , why hack ?
most people know this from the software area , most people know it .
computers hack , and then in the media it will always be , yes , the hackers will break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
that &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what she actually started , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , in the &apos; 70s , the software hackers started with computer bastles , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a problem of access , which is how things simplify , so any problem , to ask a question , and how do you do it differently , or how do you do it better ?
and it &apos;s just grown up with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics field , there &apos;s a whole bastler scene that has electronics circuits that do all kinds of things .
and now , in addition to biology , and i want to take this metaphor that &apos;s coming out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants , which , if they combine that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and so you can hack it , and i think it &apos;s incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
it &apos;s actually just taken two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now , members or active people around the world .
these are a more artistic execution , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborators with scientists who are trying to deal with these technologies and ask questions and work creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a lovely access to having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the united states , which is actually more of a forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and they &apos;re going to ask questions like this , and they &apos;re going to ask .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , there &apos;s a scene that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility , where everybody can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with it , they set up a lab and look at what can you do when these lab protocols are on .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-nature fiber , which has been around for quite a long time .
for longer than these two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics , and they &apos;re combining it in a very remote way .
a group of ankara , who i met a while ago , who was a student group who wanted to stop the public , what they were learning in college , and they were doing this on street , and they were trying to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and this is , yes , it &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really makes you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with this , and it &apos;s just about going to society and asking , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do , do you have an interest in bringing you in this way ? &quot;
so , o.k , in order to hack biology , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab , these are sort of drifted machines , extremely expensive , extremely distanced , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , &quot; okay , you don &apos;t actually have to do that . &quot;
it &apos;s not necessary , actually , because every coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , which is really the case .
and s o with this premise , then brian degger in england , for example , tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cooker , a heat plate , and , yes , a soup brothers , and then grew bacteria .
so anyone who &apos;s been playing a soup that they &apos;ve been left for too long has been done .
i then tried this in my lab to expand a little bit , and then i bought a second-hand hand equipment on ebay and did some d.n.a analysis , tried to do a paternity test , so it &apos;s like / d.n.a fingerprinting , back home .
now that shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but .
in the bottom of the picture , you can see the lab , in the leadership , so there &apos;s this sort of an admitted garage with all kinds of lab scaffolding that the university has been doing , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s also pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this is a kind of volkshock school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , so , you can see it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s what people are doing on their own , all the way to large large organizations that are already doing this in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but just always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , ok , there &apos;s now as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founder , and he said , &quot; okay , we &apos;ve got to really meet now , we &apos;ve got real meetings , we &apos;ve got two events organized , one in london , two thousand 10 , and just after that in the u.s. , in san francisco . &quot;
and then it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our targets , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
it was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , his and what &apos;s moving him , then .
that &apos;s where , i think , a very good code came from .
and then we didn &apos;t have that , but that &apos;s , you know , i think , that &apos;s pretty good , people are quite convinced of that .
and we even then tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it didn &apos;t somehow get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 variants of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at great distances in the forest that seem to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re actually from the biohacking scene in terms of a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what are we doing now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build something called an optical trap or an optical pink chain .
this is , if you focus a laser beam , on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so that &apos;s where it &apos;s captured , like a tractor beam , basically .
it really works , it &apos;s done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get it right , and then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , turned the lens off , and then you have a microscope that &apos;s about four hundred times bigger .
this is what you see down there .
and then we threw a d.v.d brenner apart and we got the laser out and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot anyway .
this is another project from the french group in paris , which has been working , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he has a kind of a brain wave measuring device , like e.e.g , or something like that , so he &apos;s been dealing with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how to start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you &apos;d understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , this is what went on .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
and then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father-in-law story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating them , d.n.a , multipliing fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do that , the profilers in the crime scene , then go and collect some hair-samples , and then they turn to this method , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , this way .
and the machines that do something like this are pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at 4,000 euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyian area , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot of things .
so this is just an application of many that you can do with this .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve put two bastler in there , and they &apos;ve said , &quot; okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve just come out of open source , which is open source available hardware , electronics stuff , and they &apos;re now getting this to the market , and they &apos;re now the cheapest provider of these devices in the world .
i think it &apos;s kind of a sixth dollar or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap , but it &apos;s certainly in a frame where it &apos;s more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very bored hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you invite d.n.a to gold particles , and the gold particles then into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i brought them to light with it like this .
so the device that you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , but it was pretty much devastating , on a branch like this , attached the thing to it , electronics on it and pressure , and that was the pressure that was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a spigot and i attached it to it .
so it turns out you take each of the 17 variants in full moon and you sing them into a different pitch .
a juice pender , if you make the full of water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six feet tall .
and then you can accelerate the particles very much enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros upward , or something like that , aspirations about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so this is also the core issue of the scene right now , to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can engage in this .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more important in our modern societies .
and if , as an informed citizen , you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society , you need the access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than triina .
and that then fires open knowledge and citizen science under the words .
so , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who at least officially agreed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a pretty remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know some of you who haven &apos;t agreed .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
partly with these hackerspaces , so they put these places together .
