you know , one of the great reason about traveling and one of the joys of ethnography research is to live with the people who still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the countless cultures of the world form a network of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important for the good of the earth as the biological web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult state of the innate , look at them as orginial and colorful , but somehow limit them to the past , while the real world , that is , in fact , progressing our world .
and that &apos;s at the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth of the thought has just begun .
and hackerspaces , so the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , nine-tenths of a hundred .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to be similar , and then we &apos;re also very well-connected , so that we can get more people involved .
and i would invite each time to deal with it and also try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in , you get there .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
so , the fact is that in 300 years , you &apos;re not going to remember the 20th century , not for your wars or your technical innovation , but rather than an era where we were facing and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work for people ?
this is a question that &apos;s very moving me as a designer , but also in the realm of research , usability , and most of all , in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use this interactive media and make it a possible experience .
because i think that the interactive media within us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , which are the paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , and that we can just recreate them through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-technology that you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
so what are archaic models now ?
i wrote down four words once , and i want to explain them briefly .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve been able to do in the pre-industrial times .
now , to these archaic models , we have a fundamentally natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new life opportunities .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to show you by trying to prove that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
the second thing is that since then , because of these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very visually , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that the interactive media by definition is nonlinear , which contains the reasoning of linearity , and which of course tells us that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth point is that history for us is a place of information .
so what about the virtuality that is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to show you that .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer them spontaneously , but this is what &apos;s going to happen and is going to happen right now .
you go through this house in the mind , where you live , and you look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not the technology itself .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality , and they don &apos;t have computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling to represent , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do that all the time .
and that capacity to virtualize the reality , that people in the pre-industrial times also needed bitters , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photooligraphy .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory occurred .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t stop being on sioux less than they were doing arrow and arrow when the americans stopped being horses and horse carts .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , the knowledge was passed on .
and so it &apos;s also so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
and the interesting thing about this is , once i get to do a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at the time , the human being was simultaneously media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but i &apos;ll come back to that in a moment .
fundamental tool for information processing has been stories since all time .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . it &apos;s the ugly face of rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were exposed to preserving knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong with stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still have a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
this means for a child who has spent most of his life in the prescription of stories , until the age of the grandchild .
now we think our love of stories depends on the fact that as a child , we sat on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
this goes back a lot , in the pre-industrial cultures .
but to me , in the field of interactive media , what &apos;s particularly impressive is that we have , in our biological memory , anchored the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of nootka indian .
and they lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you kind of had to navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with something called lead-maps .
you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in that , of the australian native americans .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-map maps , they &apos;ve used the so-called songlines or the dream thread .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that navigation and the topography of regions could be represented by songs .
where the language was subordinated by the subordinated rang .
that is , you navigated about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology that topography has made of a region , and that has made it possible , of course , that you could defragment these songs and put them in different ways , and move to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from above to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
this is what &apos;s happened in the genesis machine age .
we moved to something called the avian age before .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what &apos;s happened is the book , and what &apos;s happened is the photoligraphy .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
the book and the image .
so unfortunately , we have god to virtualize a little bit of lost .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the picture , so not the television , the internet , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media has fossilized our memories and virtualized our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people , is generally convicted , but the ethnocide , the destruction of people &apos;s lives , is not only convicted , but is celebrated in general and many places as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little bit of an intermediation .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what does it affect our thinking and our memory ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;ve been more and more overstated over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
so instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can depend on our personal memories .
we &apos;re not producing ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures that no longer in pictures , but we &apos;re encoding our language .
we &apos;ve become used to things linear happening .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the storytelling .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested with the storytelling as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s going on here ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
this sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyber-age that are bringing us to rediscover these possibilities back to our ability .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain it a little bit .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
i traveled 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i went to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear . 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered during the cultural revolution by the kades .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , then this is a concept that lets us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which means our affinity to virtualization , which is to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is addressed again .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
as crazy as that may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving into non-existential , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambient , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligent to a human being .
all of this needs the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can get up for a second so that they can talk to the two about the project in the break .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how to address this archaic , cognitive model again .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as a follower of the panel of lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer game , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people in front of some console or that they &apos;re playing with some console in their hand .
anyway , they do that in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and this is what i thought i would explore the outside world , so that i would rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that much better , there &apos;s a lot more behind it .
and it &apos;s about exploring a city by looking at which places have been positive or negative twittered .
that meant that , in the chinese invasion , he was immediately killed .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city in this way .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , and it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize this , my talk , in the sense that the characteristics and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocabulary age , and that have kind of gotten us a little bit shattered in the machine age that can be reactivated with what we call the cyber age , and that in this way , we can get back to us about complex , technological , new products , not in the future , but actually to our roots .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking sack , and it &apos;s going to talk to me rather than that .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m going to resolve what &apos;s in there as well .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , children are naturally curious or should be curious , designers as well .
i &apos;m a form of house , so i &apos;m , of course , involved in the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change our thinking , and why do we lose curiosity and have to rebound it , and so on and so forth .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a shape .
when professors get curious , they often go into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester about natural user design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask , why do all the shapes begin to engage with so natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , more user friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us human beings , which is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface , so the next generation in the human computer , where , in the relationship of the human computer , i &apos;ve been working on how our tools or how the computer is changing from the calculator sucessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been busy doing what is natural or intuitive .
maybe have to look back at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , we &apos;re going to move from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that means that you &apos;ve been found by talking a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved into the same cave , you know , in other areas , cities have formed , or villages , and they &apos;ve created a kind of tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn it , of course , sucessive and proportionate .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge cry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and i throw it in stone , and i manipulate it .
and depending on how i do and when i do , of course , it &apos;s a very different coverage than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but sucessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got in .
and then the next generation that we &apos;re actually living in today is actually primarily .
this is just the printed and printed script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just like a monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and of course that &apos;s totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , this kind of generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re participating in something like this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused by this , because we see , on the one hand , new media , social media , facebook , and so on .
the sister who did this brave act was brought into an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs the old thinking , doesn &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat , and no more beef , or other phenomena , which is i just want to dial it and i want to do it .
and these two worlds are just smashing at each other , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecological , the whole thing doesn &apos;t work .
that is , from the local village , a global village has actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitive , but also total transparency .
as you knew in the village then , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of our self through these mobile devices at a global level .
be it that we know how to aggregate globally and aggregate faster and better .
one day , she walked out of the way to a armband maos , and for that treatise , she had to go to a hard job camp for seven years .
just as it used to happen in the village .
i &apos;ve just been looking at this in front of the background , which is , in fact , what is natural for us , what is we may have lost , but what is also instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because people are often coming , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with this , which means that , and not just change it , it &apos;s different , but it should be better .
and when , of course , is a little intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , influence it and make things so that they &apos;re user-friendly , so they &apos;re possible , because then they &apos;re fun , and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re going to work on , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and this is , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside myself .
and what about it actually looks like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , in fact , intuitively and how does our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
suffering tibetan can be inexhaustible , but people &apos;s relieving spirit is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in the details , if i want to make something usable or intuitive , which means at the core .
and there you can see , you know , that a is our seven senses , most of us think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven recognized , and it &apos;s certainly coming in the near future to the next , and it &apos;s also an extension of ourselves .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
to say to yourself , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand at the heart of understanding , in nature , when does information become information , when will information and from information , so that i know how to make things so that i can make things so intuitive or , of course , handable .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a vessel , but i sort of see where salt and pepper is in it .
and if i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll be thinking about where the one on the right is , what &apos;s inside .
and then , on the left , just intuitively access , and then i hope that no sugar is in there , the salt is just like that .
but also our perception of ourselves , how does it deceive us .
for example , this perception in the context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , who said great anthropologist before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , un-minded , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
so it &apos;s n circle .
a second circle is already beginning to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and if i put another halboval on it , we suddenly don &apos;t just see one more unit , which is circle , circle , and yet we see a unit , we don &apos;t see more three parts , a circle , a circle , another .
it &apos;s called the design law , or the design psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
the design law of the nearby , the design law of the continuity and so on .
and often in the third one , we forget about it .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things just as intuitive as possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting , is vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has been around for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes on the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking back from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
that is , they projure a premise that they see something that they recognize , for example , circle .
that means we &apos;re going to projiece our vision before we see it , put it back in our sehedron , to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got so much cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projected what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , that &apos;s then coming back .
then it goes forward , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , look really again , and see if what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what kind of million-second areas these things happen .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , we were signing the cult of the seed , which replaced the poetry of the shaman by the prose of the priesthood and hierarchy , specialization and overshooting -- was only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
it &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see anything ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i see that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you see him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that means that i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now , that you don &apos;t see any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning you in a very short period of time to see this dog again and again and again in this devastating picture .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m going to projiege that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , really , really exciting processes , which then in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s just going to happen here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yes .
this is our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the loop of the past , i can also bridge very well waiting times in which i do it by always doing three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he &apos;s got to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does five milliseconds take ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period where you fall in love .
that means pay attention , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take over there for a gun , which can happen .
and sixteen milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , as we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of reassuring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it that way .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily with the subject of human object relations .
so how does a person deal with certain things .
there are the practical functions , which are so formal aspects or formalesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does anybody give a little bit of a shopping , where hardly anything fits in , so horrendous sums of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the meaningful level , which , of course , we think of as a form .
back to my real theme of natural user interface and the subject , which , of course , is usability .
usability always means how can i be able to achieve a certain goal , or how can a user , in a certain context of use be able to effectively , efficiently and happily achieve a goal ?
that &apos;s what the norm says .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance of being able to flourish a room , that all people and gardens have to be able to see , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible to use friendly ?
can i use this directly , or do i need a manual , or do i need to have a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive or not based on the name of the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not only since apple is a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i want to use technology to make people useful .
why ?
because we &apos;re usually in the process of this new kind of usability , which is the natural user ín faces , for example , five times the average of our goal .
you have to think about it in a way that if you do something of the classic softrware , you need five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , you only need an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be able to go home four hours more , but your employer , or somebody , is going to come up with the four hours more likely to do it .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance , it &apos;s also achieving certain things .
so if we go back to the field of software , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have been working with the nem neural model , or the mental model , like the software eergonoma , which is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
and that made it much more user-friendly , of course , but it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user interface is working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape the behavior than the appearance .
it &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
all of a sudden , the appearance of success becomes increasingly unimportant , the usability becomes an application .
the canadian government has not always gone very well with the inuit , and during the 50th years of the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move in settlements .
and then if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m in voice , by touch , by gesture , by mouse , by cursor , i have to control things , then i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point , when do things actually get more intuitive ?
if you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish my little friend here and look at what does that mean from the point of view of cognition gonomy , when is really something intuitive ?
and that is , for us humans , always a little intuitive when i have to think very little about it .
so , apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he &apos;s going to make it very easy .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a shape .
that means that i can transfer an intuitive human action model into software and make the software much more user-friendly .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already told you .
this old man &apos;s grandfather refused .
this is what &apos;s called the osit-model .
each of us uses this , and osit is an acronym , and stands for more oriented , selective , informed , transaction .
each of you makes it all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it makes it kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already being exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s being used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to 70-thousand times each of us after activity , so in the sleep , it &apos;s going to be found that it &apos;s going to be less often punished than it is a day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of user friendliness than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transmit this now , for example , in which i &apos;m going to orient this as an overview , select as a choice , inform in the trap , it comes up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transactions , i can also throw this somewhere , or send somebody , or buy them , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of what we are and what we are capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was afraid of his life took off all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
you know , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
supervision : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and now i can filter this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate , for example .
and all of a sudden , i have an interface , which is a lot more intuitive and a lot more natural .
because i can grab the things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me , is much more natural than if , you know , over hierarchical websites or other mechanisms , you know , can make these things accessible .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i also want to close with giving a and the hint , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and request .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you care about what divorces you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and touch more or less in the pottery , the more , so to say , your curiosity is , of course , blown up .
and curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not frightened of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious are , in fact , people who have a property you can &apos;t learn .
now , i &apos;m going to talk about basically putting this whole environmental debate , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day they give plus-scale , they give off about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the slides of their slices were originally made out of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it away .
what &apos;s astonishing is that we &apos;re dealing with something that would actually be comprehensible , but is not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we have only two years of phosphorus , and already , through phosphorus mining around the world , there &apos;s a lot more uranium going on in the environment than there is in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the falling storm .
so , for example , protect the environment , drive less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s what i would say , protect your child , just three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weights to the bathroom , our entire earth is going to be a cemetery .
that &apos;s why you &apos;re thinking from the weights to the weights .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over 60 percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , dropped his pants down from sea sfur and defeated into his hand , and as the feces began to freeze , he formed them into the form of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or also , on the square meter .
that means that we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we reform .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem .
and everything is package or content .
for example , in the open stream , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s all of them in the forewind phase , in a way .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecali-knife , and when it was frozen completely , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely inexhaustible .
so the question is , how do we deal with these windmills ?
here &apos;s one of the evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
let me tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement to the pigs over the solid ingredients .
people about the urine .
yes .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s the evidence , isn &apos;t it ?
he reveled the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the skeleton of the dog and improvised a sled , put a different dog , and he swore over the ice customs with the fecali-knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we are too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that , if you tell the people to exist , that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they get refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yes .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , even though they &apos;re vegetarian .
that means the ants weigh much more than we do .
this is how you can make something out of nothing .
and because they &apos;re physically much harder than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in their energy consumption , a little bit of 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away from what we really wanted to do and could be , and how sad we are , that we &apos;re even on earth , you can see , for example , that openbach has a program , to 20 , you want to be climate-neutral here , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the innate people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
you &apos;ve heard about it some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most striking bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really have to go back in circles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about it .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april 1999 , complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-land , no bioland , no naturally , progression system , and as they all say , that allows our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was deployed , this was happening with the ethnosphere -- only at greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we &apos;re doing agriculture in brazil where we &apos;re reclaiming the nutrients .
right away , we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it .
in china , a neighbor in china is called a honey pot today , so to say , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has always taken , but has never given back to the farmers .
and as a result , the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers were going into the cities and the cities had to continue to get their nutrients .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they get the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve made nonetheless civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , when you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for food to stay long until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to reclaim the nutrients .
in fact , the beautiful thing is , if you do this , agriculture , generates biogas , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , a farmer can produce about a thousand and a hundred dollars and wait for the plant to grow chickens and pigs and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over nine percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve review with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very poor .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just farm them .
that means that the crime goes back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 and a half in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter alleum so easily , and then the facility would be ruined for years .
it doesn &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they are not at all removed .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something , you write down , in germany , the best way to do it is to get all the sewage facilities in frfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in the open stream , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankly facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it works through .
we &apos;ve been in holland for over three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they &apos;re going to be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they are the countries of someone &apos;s home .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
there &apos;s opec a bunch of orphanages .
these are six and twenty-four countries that control 40 percent of the oil supply .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
it &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , it &apos;s about doing something right .
and the first thing to do is to ask what is the right thing to do .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that goes back in the past time , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;re in trouble , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s really effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
there we go .
that &apos;s not exactly right in science , because we don &apos;t know how much is kissed .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effectively , right ?
one thing that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s not resource efficiency , it &apos;s efficiency .
asking , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better , and to deposit it with it , and to lose all the materials for cycles in the incineration facility , but to ask , how do you make cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and i say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world , and our website will get 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that means all that matters in life is not about saving , avoiding .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throw that away is exactly the right thing , right ?
every place you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities for life again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw the wrong things away , you have a waste problem .
as we think from north .
there &apos;s a disadvantaged footprint there .
156 nations send our television channel .
when they walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the mosses are going to die , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water stays in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a large footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how are you doing with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
and then i say , heart pity , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so , don &apos;t save , decrease , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy how people in the high bow are throwing out of the car like a coke can .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of recruitment behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are just before extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is hardly equivalent to what &apos;s known to us as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re doing a series of travels in the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural world where the wisdom of all people can be blinded , and hopefully one by the other , you will assume the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in many different ways , that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s degrading everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants , so that they contribute through throwing away to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful at all .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all about being composable , of course .
a television or a washing machine , and they only use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that have disappeared , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are being used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , yes ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things more free .
yes ?
so if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we &apos;re going to figure out what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology , which we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a precisely a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment in which they can either be locally or removed with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all in it that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes you can put the cavalierstart on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go into biological circles , right ?
all of it is composable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for obesity , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and for the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why you &apos;re helping with it , you &apos;re asking for people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they have now shifted the chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they &apos;re really staying here .
so , help me do a little bit of this .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can get seamlessly and continuously , wasting , rearranging in any way .
but it goes .
yes .
what &apos;s just been represented .
you can do that .
we can do things now so that if you &apos;re going to go away , if you &apos;re going to break , you can go into biological circles .
there &apos;s also a technical cycle .
there &apos;s a direct spinal cord system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , in fact , which is made to go back into the cycle .
again , in any store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the windmill again ?
right now , that &apos;s garbage .
all over the place , these diapers are around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
that &apos;s the front of the deponia , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , that you can just go back to cellulosic base , you can plant with a baby in israel or in tunisia 100 trees .
yes ?
and just if you take these winds , you break them down , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in an area of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s sort of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute to do this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there now , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra bond to cradle to cradle , where everyone can join .
so no longer save , decrease , avoid , reduce , no guilt management , but intelligent waste .
does it make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that the power of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpret .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i write that as an interpreter , i understand myself as a translator , which is in the english word inn .
interprets are the translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you not only have to translate the word into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of the words and the wortzuship , so that it makes a meaningful translation , everyone who has to do with foreign languages .
already from german to english , you can demand more knowledge , once you &apos;re talking about poetry or even about poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layout what we do to musicians with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have just the written notes .
you think the composer has written into the notes exactly everything that he imagined .
this is an entire book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even very seemingly peniculous , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is only to remember , not to hear the acid of the wind , not to feel .
that means that the interpret has to translate these inaccurate nodes into another language , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i &apos;d like to leave you with what i otherwise translate musically , which is interpreting , translating it into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be significant for me to translate the translation of the translation .
so the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and press the keys that are on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you learned to paint .
the point of the letter is that it &apos;s only when you can see the language .
so , for the learning process of music language , you need at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a graduate student , whether you learn it for using it , you can only passively understand it , or you can also talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s linguistic .
the work of the interpret begins like a theater director .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re exploring for the back of the composition .
you collect information about the play in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of the composer .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you make comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texts and no image .
the causes of writing it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
all of this is what interests me .
you think of yourself in that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpret , you have a rich knowledge for the composer you play more and more , and it makes you easier and easier to think into it and feel .
the composer is becoming a friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece is going to be more and more to my personal cause of playing it .
now , since the notes are anything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , it &apos;s just a scaffolding , i &apos;m now going to turn this scaffolding to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework ?
and the key indicator for that is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i &apos;m going to explain to you what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time and what you could mean for him today .
every tone , every phrase gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my now , personally lived .
it has to be consistent for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve experienced .
how to reexperience a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , so do the same piece over and over again on the new .
i got older again a day that changes seasons , my pulse goes slower than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i notice the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also affects my experience with composition .
what &apos;s wonderful is , even if i stand on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , friendly conversation .
you put a new idea in there , and that will be answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we didn &apos;t try , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you , as the audience , have then experienced the way music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play as i do at that moment .
i can &apos;t play as i do in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore , on my palette of music , i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , more emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
there &apos;s a nice example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students at my beloved old teacher , professor jaturgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longitude professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emerized when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was already on his classes at my high school .
i was seventh when i went back to one of his classes and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballade was for me .
it &apos;s such a contract part .
and in my adolescence , i said expectation .
and he was cheating , and he was like , you know , like that ?
that has to be the difference in age .
because to me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already in his 60s .
well , when you &apos;re 17 , you have dreams , but you don &apos;t have significant memories .
i &apos;m going to play the piece again , every few years , and it has changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
one example from a very different area : monet has painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but it &apos;s different daytime , different light .
he has translated the seerosis in a different way , as he saw it , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
by now , i &apos;m older than chopin at the age of two and thirty , when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he lived only nine and 30 years old .
and it &apos;s important for me to look back into the notes , even though i think i can memorize them .
to keep twin practices , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
most of all , when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said , you know , it takes about as long as the spoken word for that .
now , often the music class is that you only learn how to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
and then when all the fingers are moving in time and in the right way that it is in the notes , the sounds come out together that sound like music .
if the unleashing happens , the student will get the next difficult piece .
we &apos;re not talking about interpretation at all in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s presto at the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
and loud and loud , f and b , etc .
most of you know this .
but even if you implement these data , it &apos;s still just something technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added more content .
i wonder that a lot of times you forget something very fundamental .
and that is , to make music on the instrument that should be present to your own musical doing and feeling before .
that is singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because they didn &apos;t pretend to do it by themselves , they won &apos;t do it .
it &apos;s like learning to talk .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to have it over another possibility , which is to make it sound about an instrument .
people who have never been singing have never felt instantaneously with their own body , as it is to form a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
the musical instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and rhythm of dance .
the constant coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music for yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
each of your own music is being made when you &apos;re constantly being filled with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask you , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
it &apos;s not too late for both of them to start trying to figure out whether they can &apos;t , or learn , how to use these little muscles that are hiring the vocal cords , right ?
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained that they &apos;re disparate .
and i ask , how expertise was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as you say today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a pointless candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to eliminate these limitations to the place that &apos;s available on the screen .
i say , but surely you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if i can &apos;t like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , you don &apos;t get rid of food , just because you can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get into classical music either , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say , &quot; do you like it or not ? &quot;
whether the music is too sharp or too sweet to you .
say what you feel .
over time , you get claims , and you want to have some more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience to listen to it actively ?
because the music is a language , and a language is a language to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
an artwork that you never look at has no power to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef , needs to be eaten and not only looked at or traded recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice sound plate .
if in an environment where the adults are actively making music , or at least active listening to music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , instead of a red now a blue flower before .
and this sounds very different than before .
and then that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano at all as an instrument at the moment .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had had the sound of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the sound notions that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a barockes cembalo can &apos;t do .
and also from beethoven , you know that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected from then as an unplayable .
so the composers are dependent on us to reinvent the pieces .
so that you can hear what you &apos;ve just imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to contribute to this area as well .
and also , what you would think in the mind today .
or what i &apos;m going to do today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what envy is ?
have you ever been envy ?
and how did that feel ?
shit .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and then when i come , with my little v piesel and i &apos;m wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting a little bit through my head .
but these are all roads in the united states .
i say , ulf , what are you going to need for that big car ?
now , this loses half of its value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than i did .
why do i have to afford that little car ?
and then i think immediately , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable emotions as neither of us just disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or approach something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overwhelmed at the top of nasa &apos;s exhaustible picture .
the mechanism comes from lying .
but don &apos;t think about lying , as you may have heard when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then stones go up so he closes your view .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not yourself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about , it has to do with the fact that you deceive yourself .
you need this lie to have a life lie in order to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check or make them fall .
they need time .
let &apos;s get something else out now .
this time , an anecdote , which you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman complained afterwards , the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso says , wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is and how much time you need to experience something that artists can tell us .
because artists have a disruptive relationship with lying .
the artist is sharing with you something , and especially this lady who doesn &apos;t see , if she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something to you in such a portrait that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this artwork over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , and you can &apos;t see it in the same way , and you &apos;re getting more and more similar .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifestyle .
and not only in art , but also in folk , in mythology , in stories , it comes back up .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from this real estate , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes from this true space .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful place .
here &apos;s what we need to do with politically correctness , over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us from deception without which we can &apos;t live .
we have , not only in art , in folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey and , yes , at least there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband , and she said , &quot; that &apos;s probably not true what charles wrote . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , you can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we need to prevent people from knowing something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without these lies of life .
because we have this self-deception , this sense of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something unpredictable like an organism that exists yet , comparable to a rock , and other things , that is unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington university , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we need to prevent people from getting knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism resolves and what the traces that it leaves behind that are different from something other than this magnificent picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she particularly likes to , because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m at the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healthier at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification uses the word because we should try to replace it with the word even though .
do that , and then you learn the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that this is the real truth behind the space .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in the fire delay .
he &apos;s interested in making fire .
but there are no clubs that we can look around us where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the totality of the vocabulary or a series of grammar .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
he signed up there .
and what you do , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and enjoy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better when we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others don &apos;t create when they &apos;re in fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this proof of the fact that in the inside of the bub , he actually knew that he was related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious that jumps right away without being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
and that &apos;s just how words we &apos;re using over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that if we create these kinds of views where we can go through images and have this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we &apos;ve found at my institute .
what is the logic of this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
i want to give you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example is what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is such a spiritual thing , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not a staggering , material nature .
and if you have people who are in front of you who are in the strong belief that they have a soul , or you can also say that they have been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as if the soul was such a mental framework about you , not out of matter , you know , they &apos;re just flesh and blood , something stone , sort of , to the earth , forgettable , insignificant , dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and now , from this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called in latin , which is inferior .
and then when that air force pops over humans , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that is supposed to be present to our lives .
and if you have this premise in mind , you understand the logic with which we experience that happiness , through a lie , to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three sentences you still know from school .
now this is a three-sentence here that describes a logic .
the computer vision-vision algorithms have kept these pictures together so that they can see the real space where these images that were all made near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and they see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related to each other .
that &apos;s the hardest part in my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
and that is , lying in a way that you can just apply this logic wrong .
in that three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it has no soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i &apos;ve highlighted it in particular .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of soul .
they say who doesn &apos;t have a soul , it &apos;s dead , and it can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you any other environments .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the cancers is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the cancellor is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so if sound says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he has no soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now we feel our miserable consciousness immediately , and you can do something .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and presumably .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses that two sentences are logically correct and a third that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our lifespan .
so , we pretend it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the punch line behind this technology , which is photosynth-technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue these things in different examples .
for example , in the present , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the newspapers .
you have to keep another philosophical issue here , a permanent burner from philosophy , present .
this has to do with going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the burian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact one in the middle between two equally large hairs , it &apos;s starving .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how nature is presented .
equally large forces with opposite currency signs dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if it makes the haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
he automatically runs to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , you &apos;re determined by the larger pile that pulls you on immediately , then you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re also here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer says , there &apos;s no willingness .
this is a reconstruction of cathedral notre dame , who was exclusively in the computer with images of flickr . just give notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get pictures of men in t-shirts and on university camps and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as part of this model .
now we can rebuild the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper is what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no willingness , can &apos;t be drawn to responsibility for his actions and his claims , and therefore it &apos;s unsustainable .
again , here you have it again .
in fact , first of all , you have to prove whether there is something like free .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of deception is wrong , as if you had to take , of course , the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , once you encounter a human being that you can then say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all spatially related to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit of a politically incorrect .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience one where , of course , there are predictors like this , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while they &apos;re busy realizing that they can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he &apos;s deceived them .
because he led them to a tracker where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictions .
so , in the way of shifting the burden of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , once again , you have a way to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remind them of your self-lie that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the nurses here from this great event , and she asked me if i want to give a talk here and give a prize to my idea .
i have to say honestly , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might like to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to imagine you .
but of course , it &apos;s the sum of a lot , a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably there , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad ecological image , because i &apos;ve started studying machine construction in carlsruh , technical college , i think , today , kit .
and then i went to berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to make renewables , and it wasn &apos;t there in the carllage .
you know , i never thought i was going to end up working at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafe .
they were all called kfa , which was also the jewish name of kfa .
they &apos;re now called project carriers .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but that kind of doofes like &quot; n solar commute , &quot; which comes out of sort of a square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy collectively of engineering .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 90s .
it was just that there were self-directed alternatives , and one of them was sitting in cross-section in the multiplier yard , where you thought the evil was .
it was the place of terrorism , but it was called the dronics , and it made wind and solar , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what i was said today is touches me very , very much because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collectively for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
when a no one said no , the vetoprincip , that made you absolutely crumbling . i &apos;ve been doubting for 10 years , whether i &apos;ve really wasted my great engineering student , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown out the money to your window in your child .
it &apos;s about vulnerability .
and that was really , really bitter , and you get into this kind of a phase , and it just showed up to a picture where i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d-marks , that was still , you know , basic wage , longevity in the collective , of course , if that was really supposed to be the great thing .
and i went out to six and ninety-six , and then we went with friends and i became a co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off cells .
a huge history of success , but there we are , of course , again , the problem of a growing company , and we then have two-thousandth , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that , i think , is , again , crazy , and again , that &apos;s going to start with people saying , what &apos;s the gossip , that &apos;s not going to do , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
i guess you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : everything is in the process , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them all being put together in this environment .
and we &apos;ve just begun to ask a relatively simple , crazy story , where could you use a memory meaningfully today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they have a fifteen percent renewable energy rate today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you build more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershof doing our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
no problem can be at all .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculating that was two thousand 2006 , and the first contacts started with the island , but just do the math .
how big would it have to be , in fact , a battery to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventh percent renewable ?
and yes , i &apos;ll go back to a slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power are being built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces , and so on .
the world &apos;s energy hunger , which is happening , is deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
this is fast .
you place the box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of that , there are always three of these , two of them are always waited .
yeah , this is what one looks like at the bottom there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only eat in small amounts here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the diesel is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger percentage .
there are a number of photographs somewhere here -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the power at the moment , you have to turn that one off .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can sort of take over the entire web .
you can only do that , of course , if you &apos;re manned here in some way .
no one in the world has done that yet .
this is in the small style , so you can also serve your roommate in the car over a small change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershof ?
that &apos;s it .
but if you want to put a number of these intersections together , and they &apos;re supposed to build a net , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seven to ninety-nine percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , that you &apos;re going to do that out of batteries .
this will definitely be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know it or sh , it will be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was recorded properly .
you have to go more into a seasonal memory and winter summer and not just balance tag-night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal stink electric battery ?
how far do you get there ?
and then we did a whole bunch of simulations .
and we &apos;ve simulated wind and sun and the load , and we &apos;ve come to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you can see the conventional system , which takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
if you &apos;re great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper like the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulators .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would everything have to be done ?
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social sheep .
we were only five people then to rebuild one to society .
and again , the representation .
the brown is sort of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase is that we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which the electric company on the island , has meant that &apos;s what we think is great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where , in a way , we could sort of map the electrical ratios of the island one to three very precisely .
that is , we first looked for finding the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected to each other .
here it is .
it comes from asia , naturally , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it &apos;s been developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then it &apos;s been licensed to the japanese .
you can see , it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it has a megawatt performance , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of it simulating .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size as it is in the hall to actually bring the full dynamic behavior of this grid , so in the hall it looks like this , in the back there is the big battery , here &apos;s the whole thing that we &apos;re simulating the web with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptations .
it &apos;s a means that the soul of a certain culture can find access to the material world .
all of these photographs are connected , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , the diesel , again , the whole single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousandth , the hall has been finished , until now , two-thousandth of about everything that was designed here between the single system of electronics , in software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the battery and the topic web and everything in between .
you have to , of course , communicate to the battery , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this is that , in this island , you can basically take everything away from the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion about how to move back and forth right now , energy , how to do that , on the island , for example , we have for five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re going to tire the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start on the island already to integrate electromobility , to ask , you know , you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re at seventh percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
you get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through n smart-grid , you can do it by expanding the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , you will hear the percentage , but you will never be able to completely dismiss storage .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , just because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just made up of loud rotating masses of big power plants , wherever the wave is all around europe .
we look into this web , we see the 50 hertz , and when it turns nine comma hertz , we catch a couple of valves , and then we go back into a little bit of merh steam , and then we come back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible contracts .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the sequel of stephen lawlers &apos; work on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can take this big battery out two milliseconds and turn it out .
and you can see , you know , there are enormous speeds .
and the message is , we need to get these rotating masses , if we &apos;re kind of going to get our goals 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we &apos;re going to get there .
then we have to break down our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run simply means the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , this is a huge debate right now , building the coal plants , because we don &apos;t do anything else , or gasturbines , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can break down the capacity , the must-run capacity , by bringing electrochemical storage to the grid .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use , is growing and the use for the user with the application is getting bigger and bigger .
and then , at that point , people always come and look at our experimental state , which is sort of our island test .
and yes , the discussion is all about the question of , how far can you take a piece of the far future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
you can &apos;t do it , you can &apos;t do it , you can do it , you can &apos;t do it .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is a role model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical storage all over the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a whole lot of resistance and arguments .
the beautiful thing is that i &apos;ve been seeing , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are being signed with metadata , which has given another person .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , and we &apos;ve got about to blow up 10 megawatt-battery now to the german grid .
this will happen next april .
so from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewables are true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far in discussions , these insulaners , they &apos;re doing self-sustaining , they have a little net , and that has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is very simple , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy supply that &apos;s being drilled out anywhere in the world and put it into you , you &apos;re an island .
then you only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where you live .
and that &apos;s a little bit our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in this way , the talk from premium cola , is that you can be a collective again , and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you then , in the sense that you can be quiet a little bit crazy and also have a vision .
if somebody has made the trouble and labeled all these sacred and shared who you are , then my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral suddenly becomes enriched with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of cross-model social experience using other providers .
and you really have to stay quite tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , one day went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two strings .
many of you will know the story , because steve &apos;s article about it later became a book that was filmed with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassist who studied at juilliard-conservatory and whose promising career was tragically ended early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a nerve breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steve &apos;s book or to watch the movie , so that not only do you understand the magnificent connectedness that came out of these two men , but also how the music helped make this connection , and how it was the instrument , when that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel off the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demo of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine me .
he spoke in a very healer and social tone about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the first violin passage in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , besides all of this , the immense rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that has been preserved not only by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in self-education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he was already treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that has followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappeared for days in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torque of his own mind .
and in the same kind of rice stage , nathaniel , when we started our first lesson at the walt disney concert hall , and he had this miserable flicker in his eyes and completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not in my opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his circumstances , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin , if i started talking about sound and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardening .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathania &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was as if he was under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
and as with a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some clips of violin concert and then asked me to finish it : mendelson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that , not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge about music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about it with a passion and an understanding that i know only about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , excellent , trained musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing state .
i understand them right ? their software enables that at a certain point in time , within the next few years , all the images that are being used by somebody in the world are basically connected to each other ?
i understood that this is exactly the nature of art .
this is why we make music : so that we can make something that is within all of us , deep inside of us , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption power of music brought him back into a family of musicians who understood his talent and took care of him .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist .
yes . it doesn &apos;t matter anything but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tastier , good consistency , durable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquakulture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel like you could sell it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do a session on the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-growth forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what this unimaginable problem was for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the swordfish , they have collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , i guess or evil aquakulture , fishery building , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments against it . fishing facilities are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a 15-to-one feeding assessment .
that means 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollute the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this feeding assessment from 2.5 to 1 , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put it on .
and that night , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , don &apos;t call .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he doesn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
now , i phones with a couple of people in the company , and no one could give me a decent answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you do a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
let &apos;s also call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture connects you to all of your images ?
i loved this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous pleasure and good man .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because i swear to god who &apos;s been chopping for chicken after this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way in which the better you get to know your fish , you love the fish more .
i first ate him in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had spoken about this fish for a long time .
it kind of sued us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost glowing white color .
then the scale of the semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really , really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked him .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so well after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call him miguel . in fact , he &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and it &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the land .
they built this complicated series of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make sure that that worked , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , an environmental awareness spanish company bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of the water .
thank you very much .
they literally replaced the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , sea shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company have completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like that .
they stare out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see are flood channels and that density , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there with miguel a long time ago .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? we were there fighting through the wetlands , and i &apos;m keuking and sweating , and i &apos;m matsch to my knees , and miguel is quietly giving a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he is highlighting a rare glide .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more talking of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community , unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the evening .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-replicating .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , while we &apos;re sitting here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
the moment it was like a film director demanded a change in the game .
and we bent around the corner , and we came up with the most incredible view , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet as far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your stocks , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you haul your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief set of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensive .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the more pink the gut the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through the maximizing of the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed your animals and a farm that measures your success in the health of your predators .
a fish lift , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos shouldn &apos;t even be there in the first place .
they breed in a city of 240 kilometers away , where the ground environment is better for the nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 miles .
they do this because they can follow the striped white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm , and then fly it back 240 miles in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom in itself is good , valuable , meaningful , an unpredictable condition for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . they do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it crushed .
it &apos;s this shattering , coated taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t tap it for fish skin at all .
she tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing things that maximize our common good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense , before something comes into the body .
it has evolved in the course of evolution to look at inpurity . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water has no inpurations . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success at the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that has no inpurity , he drives tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers today tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , waste of pest control .
and when it &apos;s fought through the system , and it leaves the water clean than it has come in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because this love story , however romantic , is also enlightening .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , from one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , that &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re enjoying . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you claim that these are the things that make sure the future is good food , somebody stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more well-being they have .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
one billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in distribution , not the total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it has determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
now , feeding crops to plant feeders , skull control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chickens to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry has just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a business in the envelope , a commercial that is rapidly eating ecological capital that will allow this production to happen .
this is not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our grain chamber today is threatened , not because of degrading , but because of degrading resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this , i think , is so deeply embedded in our water supply that it would not come to mind .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it never really produced anything good for food .
let &apos;s look instead at the ecological model .
this is the one that goes back to two billion years of work experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that restore instead of using up , businesses that grow extensively , rather than just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts in relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts in flavor .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;m ever going to be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to give you one thing today , it &apos;s that the total amount of data that we consume is bigger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information to create patterns and see trends that would otherwise not have become visible .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical death-based diagram .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a particular cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle here , the people are most active and they are most calculated over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes us modern progress .
we can go one step further and rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , if we go on and we look for age , let &apos;s say , 40 years or more , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should be worried about .
and if you look further , this is particularly true in men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
what we have here is the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you like to test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive in a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught anymore . that means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . it &apos;s not a big deal .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports types .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , which is where all the expenses that lance armstrong talks about .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at the bicycle issue ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to step back and get the view .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t look , or you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s a little bit in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little bit crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipedias and reduced it to a small summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of what it comes from .
i &apos;m just going to show the top 500 of the most popular wikipedias .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
now i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipedian categories that are most popular with time magazine are &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipedias .
that &apos;s just to see if you go back and look at the whole thing .
so , looking at a particular summary , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see all of them together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamicoessig you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time , as if it &apos;s really a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just going to show you the new york times website .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zooming technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump right back to a specific section .
so this is important , because just by looking at websites in this way , you can look at all the internet in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in my course in a particular time frame .
so that &apos;s how the supermarket is .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding up to this .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory , maybe by my search past , and here , i &apos;ve been looking for nepotistic , here for bing , or here for live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the site and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the overall picture bigger than the sum of the database .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the escape of information .
we &apos;re talking about drowning in information .
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to be able to go from many things to many things , and by doing so , see patterns that would have otherwise remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then this current data trap , maybe a new source of meaningful information .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , we might even be able to pull out wisdom .
and i &apos;ll stop that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a wooden portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i drove to school with the bus every day for an hour per walk .
and my nose was always in a book , a science-fiction book that led my thoughts into other worlds and , in a narrative way , satisfied my deep in me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would travel through the forests and collect samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and ponds , i would bring it home and look under the microscope .
i was completely science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of miracles that we could never have imagined before .
i think that &apos;s probably very well adapted to this science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this oversaw with computer-generated movies or the whole imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that back then . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author , and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was drawing and painting of aliens , alien worlds , robots , spaceships and all that .
in math class , i was constantly caught by the teacher , as i was hiding in the back of the textbook , painting around .
creativity somehow had to get out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteau &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
i certainly would never reach an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed quite unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem was that i lived in a small village in canada , a thousand miles away from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t discourage myself .
i annoyed my father until he finally made a diving school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my submersible in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter of buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i got to face only two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that are now denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the deep sea world , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as we can &apos;t imagine .
in other areas , the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own cute human imagination .
to this day , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean is holding with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to a profession as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
this seemed the best way to unite my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that fit together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area , &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my love for the underwater world and the diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of flattened .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : in order to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we attacked on computer-generated animation , cg , back .
what came out of it was the first computer-generated software surface-figure ever to see in a movie .
the movie didn &apos;t bring in money , in fact , he just played his production costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out .
arthur clarke &apos;s law , of course , is not separate from each other &apos;s advanced technology and magic .
so they saw something magical .
and i found that incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be referred to film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy there , and the success depended on how this effect would come about .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at the time , and it was called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analogy processes with optical printers , etc . , and start right with digital productions .
and then we did that , and we got a competitive advantage for that for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in creature-design , what we actually started the company for was too slow .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to be the brass of visual effects and computer-generated effects throughout new heights , with realistic human expressive characters made using cg , and the main figures should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was pretty much back , and the people in my company told me that we were not preliminary yet able to do this .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love movie of epic extent , a passionate movie .
but in secret , i actually wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being covered by the silence of being one of the last people in your language , not having a chance to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
and a consequence of that was that the phone had never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced them , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
that &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketer . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but this goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later in which i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and everything .
and i noticed how much these deep sea dives , how much of a space mission resembled .
well , they were also highly technical , and they were allowed to do extensive planning .
you go into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science fiction movie .
it &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was literally obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , the part that has to do with curiosity and science -- it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature where we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice for telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and the science at the time that we saw them had found no words .
so that really got me upset , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started to dive to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotics .
we went back to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it . so we developed the technology .
well , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are quite similar to these boards , and i know that the band once played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the titanic shipping wreck .
this was the most surreal shape of a déjna vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner , i always knew what was going to appear in the light bulb of the vehicle , because i was walking over the movie set for months , when we were shooting the movie .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and put your consciousness into the vehicle , into this different form of existence .
it was really incredibly profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all sorts of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science-fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we saw down there , like these deep sea jellyfish , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of alien animals , but here on earth .
my favorite is the one in the middle -- mp3 players , nas-hair trimmer and crème brème fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a solar light system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was , again , the science fiction effect of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space , and who are involved in nasa , and they &apos;re in the nasa expertise council , and they &apos;re planning real space missions , and they &apos;re going to russia , and they &apos;re going through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going to go through the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , it was that i took space scientists with us into the deep sea .
i took them and i brought them to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , samples and test instruments and so on .
we made documentary films , but actually did science , in fact , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation in reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this voyage of discovery , i &apos;ve learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you now think a director has to be able to lead , a leader , like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand a lot of leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of it ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . there &apos;s no trace of fame .
everybody thinks i was in between titanic and avatar , and i walked away from it , and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the will , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment there . you do it for the sake of discovery , and because of the strange connection that comes when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all this with just 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were at sea for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the aesthetic thing you have in front of each other , because you have a task that you can &apos;t explain to any other .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you work at sea , &quot; you can &apos;t explain the other thing . it &apos;s like police officers or soldiers who have gone through something in common and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next movie , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to use the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve against respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a little team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now , do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
and so my way of making films changed completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d done really well on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a fundamental way of doing my job , the actual process that has changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first one is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human trait .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the awe of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t restrict yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself . take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in studying , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees a trust board .
not an important endeavor that demanded innovation has ever been done without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with , and failure is absolutely an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a surprise , because my full-time job at the foundation is mainly about vaccines and seeds , to make the things we need to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone on the planet .
climate degradation means that the seeds are not going to grow over many years ; it &apos;s too much or too little rain ; things are going to change the way it can &apos;t stop its fragile environment .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , a climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle for them is very important .
the fact is that if you could only reduce the price of one thing , the poverty reduction would be the most effective energy for far .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we are in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone on earth somewhere , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly man dies and takes the last syllables of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms up the planet , and the co2 equation is actually quite clear .
they add the output co2 , which leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature increase has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes and therefore whole systems collapse .
well , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad !
i asked the top scientists a couple of times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t it enough for half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 meter truck that has to be under a 30-foot bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down to the bottom , to zero .
well , we &apos;re releasing a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to make changes that are going to go down to zero .
it &apos;s been up constant .
only different economic changes have affected it at all , and we have to go from rapid rise to reduction and to zero reduction .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get to zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that is emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of those numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could make a , or we could make b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion , moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we &apos;re seeing a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make arguments and use less , but on average , that number will rise every year , and therefore double , the number of services per person will be provided .
a has these benefits and risk .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street light .
well , in efficiency , in the e , in energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of all kinds of successes in the light sector , through other types of changes , through new methods in the home , there are a lot of services whose energy effort some of them can reduce by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizers making , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 58,000 or air traffic or air transport , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough !
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get this to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity is emitting co2 today , except renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , if i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and you say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually you &apos;re just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks people &apos;s idea here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
i came up with this for energy .
i decided that leaving fireflies would be my contribution to the environment this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
they told me they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risk and b has those benefits and those risks .
well , there are all kinds of gadgets like this , but they all don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have a unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions that people are looking for , i really see only five that can afford these big demands .
i left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if you do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re frightening us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at the burning of fossil fuels , either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to get all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after you burn , catch it , put it under pressure , and then store it somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but get it to 100 percent , and get an agreement for the storage of co2 is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the waretime question .
who will make it safe ?
who can guarantee something , which literally many billions of times larger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a hard nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some downsides .
one is the energy density that these technologies create is dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , talking about a lot of square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power station .
and also , these sources are underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t seem to be shining all day , it doesn &apos;t seem to be waving every day , and so does the wind not always wake up .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big pricing challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you need to deal with the risk that the energy is coming from where it is .
and there &apos;s the warehouse problem .
and to show you the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : all the batteries that are made for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything . and i &apos;ve compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be 100 by a factor of 100 better than the way we &apos;re approaching it right now .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself about 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where are we going to go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , you &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many here in the ted group that are already involved in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; would the world not be a better place if we all talk one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonic .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy , &quot; which sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who doesn &apos;t know anything and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution , it &apos;s a decision -- namely the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a great surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concepts means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , they had been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never , in fact , simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn this 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a propulsion .
instead of breaking your head over it , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; traveling wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the uranium used .
that &apos;s what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy filtration , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are a lot of challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise for us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent are going to be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully wal-threatening and cement will be clean until then .
so to reach this 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed world , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use efficiency to get reductions down , and the less we emitt , the less the carbon sum is going to be , and the more the temperature is going to be .
but in fact , this note for the things we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just equally , or even a little less important than the others that are the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
these breakthroughs , we have to track full gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are many great books on this topic .
the al gore book , &quot; we have the choice , &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework in which this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just allowed me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halved energy cycle without co2 , i would take that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , between the long term and the short-term people will get terrible between the u.s. and china , between the poor and the rich countries , and almost all of the lives of that two billion will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of how this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we need to do ?
what are the actions that i &apos;m appealing to ?
we need to use for more research money .
when countries get together in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
they should talk about this innovation strategy , and they would be shocked by the ridiculously low money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market travel , we need co2 , we need cap &amp; amp ; trade to create a price signal .
we have to spread the news .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are being done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you !
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists that we &apos;ve done , we only need a couple of 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure that it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 1000s million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , which regularizes and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is done , when it goes like promises , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
to understand the right thing , this means building deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : right . today , you have to refill the reactor , so there are lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and you bring things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that buried it without all the complexities .
and it &apos;s sitting there , and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that even offers a solution to the waste .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the waste : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we put in our fills , and it &apos;s dramatically reduced the waste volume during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t set ourselves to a place yet , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting rules of revelation for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; in the name . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , the timeline and the probability of creating this real thing ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , stream-generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then we have 20 years to use .
this is kind of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to think about .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , as well as their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be the best way to do it for multiple , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
according to the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental demand , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one and that they got married as fast as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type , which seems a little hard , but maybe they &apos;re saying that about us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , they play the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we have to do emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something like that .
there &apos;s a research line called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work at all on insurance , because that might make you lazy , so you &apos;ll keep eating , because you know that you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate maskeptics : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative impacts that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have only later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be like that . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time remove the co2 , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i don &apos;t care that it doesn &apos;t emitt co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjordan lomborg argument that if you use all that time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , the poverty reduction , the fighting of malaria and so on , it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
there shouldn &apos;t be other things under that .
you get too much money , and here &apos;s where reasonable people can disagree , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the waste you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach them wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new masche is now , &quot; why is it not going to talk about research ? &quot;
he &apos;s still associated with the skepticist camp , because of his former stories , but he &apos;s understood that this is a very lonely group , and that &apos;s why he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a mindset that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i speak for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called the marshmallow challenge .
the idea is quite simple . four teams have to build the biggest possible free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a foot tape , about 1m threads and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top of it .
and not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and even though it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with fortune 50-company ctos , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep impressions to go into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually , most people start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
they &apos;re talking about , they &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and they put spaghetti out .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of ever-growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow , and they put it gently on top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to bend and fall in .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy with other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and the worst of them are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they &apos;re really , really persuasive .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best are fresh alumni of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s quite amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how is that ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok .
should i marry later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then you realize it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten children do is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have the ability to repair badly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every trial , the kids get immediate feedback what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the power of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are doing .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students create half of them , lawyers do a little more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-reinforcing geometric patterns are key to building stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that happen ?
because they have special skills of processing accompanions .
they run the process , they understand it .
and that team that regulates and is going to significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you and not get good grades in my course .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now , i tried something exciting .
i thought , well , let &apos;s do the poker &apos;s job .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize in software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competition has a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this practice with the same student .
what do you think happened now ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so from the same bad team , one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl has shown , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- to the randolph hotel .
the challenge offers a common experience , a common language , or basic , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this very simple practice .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of people optimizing and refining the system .
there &apos;s also world record .
and the fundamental lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connecting sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that lies ahead .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , where the wiring plan works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question recently , and you all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there was cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then suddenly you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re going to do : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or shouldn &apos;t work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death row .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed earth &apos;s demographics in a way that no war has ever made .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we &apos;ve forced them . phew .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have still threatened only one generation ago , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hip , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphtery , root , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying things out is to see if it works , it changes , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s the whole good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world in a very profound way .
drinking water , urgent land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re disappearing soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of that chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re watching our child mutilating a football game , we &apos;re also wondering , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think we can .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds and 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven more about these things than we are now on the fronts .
people are in their faith , and that &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
it &apos;s not even going to liberate the truth .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion about progress .
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right for ?
they &apos;re not right for their own facts . &apos; &quot; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccine for the new yorker , a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , resistance to what is the most effective thing in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was frankenfood , why they thought that molecules were in a certain way , rather than a random way to push around , was a surplus in the field of nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be very different from your child &apos;s experience of the football game .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we &apos;re typing , we &apos;re packing , we &apos;re going to eat , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles made me worried , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were careful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking twin about it .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with a little sign of leadership : &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what are the reasons .
we have the trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes lost into science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just call a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , viox , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing but granted .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that because we &apos;re now living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen before , and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that brought the autism epidemic to the maser , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were done to see if that was true .
in fact , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter , because we believe in anecdotes , we think what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government agency that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do that .
i mean , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where vaccination rates are declining for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened is that we could do that .
well , i understand . i do .
because anybody here has masses ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masers ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we &apos;re living in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 hours per hour .
but because that hasn &apos;t happened here , we can push it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no torture , child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today i &apos;d like to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere to try to make you understand what actually has been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he just developed a few other people a rotavirus vaccine with him .
he can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , apart from paul walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul speaks in a public audience , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets phone calls at home because people like to tell him where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take it away , you reverse the diseases , horrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening .
we now have masses in this country .
and that &apos;s going to get worse , and pretty soon , kids are going to die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commiliton of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said she thought i was a little bit too shrimp .
nobody has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . absolutely not .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get a bad idea about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have a kindergarten . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have kindergarten in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe this morning , somebody in lagos got on an airplane and is flying to los angeles , and right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he &apos;s going to land and rent a car , and he &apos;s going to come to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidancy that helps you to jump .
i know you &apos;ve done that because half the americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data is taking this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do anything .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i &apos;m totally agreed with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that instead of releasing paralysis , it &apos;s paralyzed .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishingly cold and soulling to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from it , and where are we going ?
we run into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of it -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what do you care ? let people do what you want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options that you can choose , people are very hard to even choose .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to accept the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer quacksalber who wants to treat his patients with caffs .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is placed worse than any other disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study on investment in volunteer age .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersily , every rose , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarin paradise .
there were no cantal melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it more closely . and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people extende their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all of that is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid of a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we do right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if it only offered five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniook .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this stuff in it .
and then people could eat that , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is : why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now , there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment funds that are choosing , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose that they &apos;re going to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask : why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s about time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do that , we &apos;re going to be guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want to .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on anything we want .
we can move them where we want to go , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we go into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless they look at it the way i do , as &quot; a deception that becomes something real , if someone believes enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s just because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes only enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body that &apos;s called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it &apos;s also that the decisions are so hard that they miss large investment in their employers .
a deception becomes something real , because somebody perceives it that way .
so , in order to understand each other , i want to show you a basic , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been in every magic book since the 1950s for children .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;m going to explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my fault .
i push my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year from the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist right here .
this is how you can see that there &apos;s no time to do anything , and as long as i push here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand up , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickling , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach little kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
many of you in the room probably know this trick .
here &apos;s how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because there &apos;s the real secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger moves here , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting there who didn &apos;t have childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it &apos;s processing information doesn &apos;t count one , one , two , three , but you see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not the point . and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes sure the world looks like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my index finger , which is there now .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens , as i turn back , is hidden by this movement , that the finger is moving back .
i &apos;ll take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so this was an amazing thing for me .
it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin pill , it &apos;s just a round , white pill , which has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you put a letter on it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and this , although none of these are any pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? it really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any form .
one color capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
also , the dosing plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
you don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing sing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an effective -- a few milliliters of an effective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head , which is much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t look as good as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t look as good as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any real pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that makes a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle if you want to go to the thing .
this is an 18-inch hutneedle . it &apos;s very , very top . and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and drive it through , until it hits the other side .
if you &apos;re going to be bad -- if you &apos;re going to fall easily in favor -- i did this a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost faint .
so i propose , if you &apos;re quickly going to be evil , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first healing part in the back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to do a little one-by-one .
i &apos;m really sorry . is it crazy ?
and just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about that .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , can you ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , that &apos;s probably not so stupid , and they &apos;re going through their own skin just to give us a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t see that right . &quot;
for example , take this kid from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically , they came up from the milky river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is determined by the great selection of different salatdressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what has happened is that imagery has led you to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the satisfaction that you &apos;ve had from your made decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn this around .
i &apos;m sorry . when you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look at it .
the people in the back , or those who will see this on video sometime later will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , you know , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it really was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take out the needle now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing , that &apos;s disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think , in this context here and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;re looking forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a huge wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive cases that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive traps .
secondly , what economists call oppertunity costs .
this is true for laymen who think about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we are just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these cases is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he &apos;d heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling you how much we value things depending on what we compare it to .
and then he added in , really quite emotional , which ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present , which is able to experience the past , but essentially has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is attacking -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it hurting when i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memory self , and the memory self is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s just to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two are confused is part of the very different notion of happiness .
well , the memory self is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we &apos;re not just telling stories when we &apos;re trying to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that what we have to remember is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who undergo a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful today , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who of them suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain , the patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than it was for b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the perspective of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead to the patient suffering , but just a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve been able to make the living self worse off of patient a , and you &apos;ve made the memory of the patient a much better off , because now patient a has given a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory gives us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
and what excites a story is breakthroughs , meaningful moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of experience , one after the other .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological presence is for about three seconds , which means , in a lifetime , there are about 600 million of them . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you get the kind of impression that you should count that what happened during these moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in the world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that holds the memory of ourselves .
so we have the memory of ourselves and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is how to deal with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first , then the double-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
this doesn &apos;t work at all for the memory self .
for the memory of the self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory self from a living self , and time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
well , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , it &apos;s the one who chooses the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon that will be selected .
the living self has no voice in this choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory itself , and you can think of the memorizing self as one , which sort of draws the living self through experiences that don &apos;t need the living self .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of memory .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we feed from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors of blue and green , because the celestial scene is the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we made a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often about how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably , from my memories , of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i &apos;d ever opened the folder up with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s only one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are being destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you won &apos;t remember anything .
well , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer . and if you think about it in the sense of memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that is going to face us with a choice between the two selves .
now , the two types of self are throwing up two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the lives of the living self ?
and you &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory self , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who &apos;s not different from these terms will mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being , who have been messing up the exploration of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their lives , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy he lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he &apos;s spending two weeks following the thought that he &apos;s missed the ability to have a great parking lot on day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has ordered their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his herself living .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of the self .
we know money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being happy with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you &apos;ll end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs down the happiness that we get through our selection , even if what we choose is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason we can &apos;t think about happiness clearly is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier when they live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to follow what happens to people who move to california , hoping to be happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more opportunities there are to choose , the more attractive features of this choice are being looked at in the opera cost .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very hard to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how hard it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we phone a couple of weeks ago , they mentioned to me that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something that you can participate in , because you &apos;ve got a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
if we looked at how emotions are varied with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a 600,000 dollars a year &apos;s income .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw so flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t raise you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money surely gets you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the spirit of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
well , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the entire american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this fund seriously , i mean , it all seems to be on the head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians would generally take a finding like the seriously and make policy based on this ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries , it &apos;s happening .
people are about recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life grades , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think and whether you think about the memory self or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe doing things slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
right now , we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one important point that he does is : always who you choose for one thing , you don &apos;t choose not to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute for the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time it took is 21 billion hours of play per week .
this may seem a little bit disgusting , so i repeat it so that if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i mean it really seriously .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so vital to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it &apos;s what they &apos;re going to do to make less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings in the game , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you &apos;re probably seeing this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , really immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you also play , you &apos;ll see some nuances here , the eyes zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . prima . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so super-positive that you didn &apos;t know it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of doing this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is just before an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solving , all over the world , when we &apos;re attacking the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are on the verge of all the odds of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life , i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yes ? ok .
that &apos;s me making the &quot; in life , i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we &apos;re better at play than in real life .
this is a problem that a lot of players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good as we are in reality .
and i don &apos;t mean just less successfully , even though that &apos;s true .
we &apos;re reaching games more . i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to work with each other .
this hit me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think a lot of us are going to turn into our best version , at any time , and immediately be helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have those feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think you couldn &apos;t just do everything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from the games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a world mission , and that &apos;s right away .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their ability , so they have to get involved , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and twist . there &apos;s always a very important thing to do .
and there &apos;s a lot of employees .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that as simple in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingernails , you have a dexterous staff .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans in a way , and they bought them , and they fed them badly , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and when they wore them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have a plus-one and + one crazy idea , plus 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem with cooperative online worlds like warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory all the time , that we prefer to spend our entire time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcrafers together have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily something bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend now playing , it just makes sense when you look at the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we &apos;re capable of as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , cardiac beings .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person in a country with a strong game culture is spending 10,000 hours playing online games until the 21st year .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10.080 hours is the exact total that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the degree of high school -- if you &apos;re never missing .
so here we have a complete parallel education path where young people learn exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , lightweight or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the magnificent research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject to the 21st year , we become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at whatever to do , like the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players great ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have , in a way , unprecedented human potential .
so many people are now in the world that spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master-players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want buttons or locking ? stone or acid washing ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have a total 1.5 billion players .
so i started to think about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of that as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a reasonable hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying to do it , and that &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of social nets .
do you want to holes in jeans ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we like people more after playing with them , even when they defeat us .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody is spending time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal , and we stay with the end of the game .
so the interaction allows the growth of bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcrafare players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we &apos;re relaxing or doing nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always willing to work hard when they get the right job .
do you want to cut far down , custom , blah blah , blah , &quot; and so on he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of awe missions of planetary outcomes .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that on the right , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together about the world of warcraft on the internet than about any other topic in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , because of the michehen six or seven languages , is that you never hear somebody who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the kind that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness not less than a mass emigration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit obsolete .
so he says , this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can tap into games more powerful social bonds than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best fit jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says , it &apos;s completely logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start to turn the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years ago .
there are these ancient cubes , these sheep skulls . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep skulls .
and these were the first people developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story . the story about how and why games were invented .
herodotus was invented games , precisely cubic games , in the kingdom of lydics during a famine .
i had it better . all this choice allowed me to have it better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydics decided to come up with a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game and agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the game of the game , because games are so fascinating and surround us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
likewise , i think we &apos;re going to use games today .
we use games to get out of the real world &apos;s suffering .
we use games to get out of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , all that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
herodotus didn &apos;t get any better after 18 years of famine , so the king decided to use a final cubicle game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there were food to survive , and they looked for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
that &apos;s why scientists recently realized that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine could explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing games for 18 years , whispering into games , and then they had that recovery , and they learned so much about each other that they saved the entire civilization .
so that &apos;s what we can do .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to search for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should overcome that half of us spend an hour a day playing , until we &apos;ve solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems of the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question that i &apos;ve dedicated my work at the institute for the last few years at the institute of the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to predict the future .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empower people to get this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and create people &apos;s epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when there was only one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been following them for the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a changing experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is an amazing adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained the habits in the game .
so for the next world treating game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the computation of a supercomputer that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we almost created a jerry bruckheimer movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team , you have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-stranding , and only together can you save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 . it &apos;s a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , from the world bank , you get the award &quot; social change , &quot; in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities all over sub-saharan africa and inviting them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on this . we have &quot; level high &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge connectivity , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to finish now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree with me that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to tap tight social networks , urgency optimism and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll play and play with me like this .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure two things : that we can create any future imaginable , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago in the writing of an italian wired article .
i &apos;ve always had my synonym dictionary ready in writing , but i &apos;ve done the work of texting , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked at what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means in my life .
i &apos;m going to read you the entry .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjective : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , dead , mutilated , wounded , constrained , lahm , disconnected , served , chosen , impotent , capped , paralyzed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , age weak , pulled out of traffic , refined , broken , broken , counted , also injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh at the first time , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; oriented , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading , and i had to collect my first time after this sort of over-like escape and the emotional shock .
of course , this was a full-blown , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was an issue in the early &apos; 80s when i was starting in elementary school and starting to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god , i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen and then you start talking .
adding opportunities into people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this mission seriously , i would be born into a world that would perceive someone like me as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i am celebrated for the opportunity and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expected myself to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms shock me all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , have really believed that the language of an escape has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about can also manifest itself .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
even a human being could be mindless as a child , enough to limit them and to impose ideas to them .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors to you ?
a man who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s an italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just designed for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to do individual practices seemingly infinite times with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i &apos;ve even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he was watching me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and scary -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to get one of these benches one day .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you were to , you all don &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. so that i would do the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do with the prospect that the richest five-year-old girl in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me , as a strong and powerful young girl , has shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as one of nature , looking at myself as a very strong , powerful and atlethic human being .
this is just one example of many how adults in positions of power can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the already quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow each individual to think of themselves as a powerful person .
our language is reducing the social change that has been caused in many cases by a technological change .
from the medical standpoint , of course , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visualities , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and develop beyond the limits that have given them their natural destiny , not to talk about social networking platforms , giving people a sense of identity , in their own way , and to orient themselves to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt , is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people always ask me to tell how to deal with widrifts , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never adapted to me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering people &apos;s questions , and i think gradually i understand why .
this sentence of dealing with widrifts lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on a challenge without being coined by the experience that i had , as if my life had been so successful , because i could make the case of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we are changing . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
widespread is not a obstacle that we need to reverse to deal with our lives better .
widrifts just belong to our lives .
and i tend to think of odds as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to put the impact , or the severe , of the fight of a human .
there are widrifts and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is doing it differently , but the question is not whether we &apos;re dealing with widespread or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but also prepare them to do well .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we make them feel like they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than everything was worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : to one , to be the medical fact , to be amputated and to the other , to be the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability i had to deal with is that the world is constantly talking about , it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who are at heart and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical prediction , or even to provide a prediction about the quality of life that they expect , we need to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t put the ground for someone to actually be disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for every one of us , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being fully , and we don &apos;t perceive all of its forces and capabilities , we also create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a human being that has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention , there is a connection .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we return them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds in the odds .
it may be more to me to realize that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome the odds , but that we &apos;re open to embracing them , to put them on the shelf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is that things are as good as you expect them to do .
and maybe we can think of the odds as something natural , coherent and useful and feel so disgusted by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200 . birthday of charles darwin and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed to something very true in the human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its kind , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can adapt best to change .
conflict creates creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to change through conflict .
so again , change and adaptation are people &apos;s greatest skills .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re made of when we really get tested .
perhaps that &apos;s the point of widespread , a sense of i.e. , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give a new meaning to wholesale that goes beyond severe times .
they &apos;re never going to be surprised , because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can think of odds as change .
the odds are a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . there &apos;s the typical . but not the normal . and would you really want to meet this poor , gray person , if they really were there ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could unlock this paradigm of normality against another one of the possibilities or the strength to even make it a little bit more dangerous , and we can unleash the forces of a lot of children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolars have found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that may have happened because the life experience of survival in these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they &apos;ve all come for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as being broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up in a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a sheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts on .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you could barely remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , then it made a click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- which i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i came too late to my birthday for two weeks .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i had just a few toes on this , and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bullying , this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids or you could never live an independent life , and they &apos;ve just punished me lies since then . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i had won in a letter competition in the second grade , whether i was in the parade , whether i was in the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my sports victories , and he was using these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you just can &apos;t emphasize how important this factor can be for the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. kean kept saying , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get anything else , and even if they get just a little bit of support , if you leave kids to themselves , then kids can do a lot of things . &quot;
you see , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how to deal with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me , at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prostheses against legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me this today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite those experiences .
and maybe that change could happen , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who want to constrain me or have an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own inner forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , they &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to create something that is in one that is to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who had been peacefully contacted for the first time in 1958 .
but leaving is not always such a bad thing .
again , what kind of potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was converted into big schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided by notes .
and the a students get harder to test , get the better teachers , and so on .
they then have given a three-month period to students with a &quot; enough &quot; the note &quot; very well , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks the heart to you that the one-size-fits-all student was told that they were just sufficient .
and that &apos;s what it was like after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had gone to school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers were not inferred .
finally , a consequence of the purchase of a bad sitting jean , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you do ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-size-fits-all students , and they were enough of the students , and they were teaching them something , and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind , a mind that has been broken , has no hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human mind , to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around us , to find themselves beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and a new form of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is , &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandment , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , he says , come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , there could be a better memory -- more precise , more accurate and faster .
or do you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has been looking for more and more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if she could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is , you .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it for others , or is it for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all of the existing specials at the top of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far to the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we &apos;re branching from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , most of the time , the basic mechanisms are quite the same to our cells .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and ask the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetic ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes out of the pancreatic .
and what we &apos;re talking about is bacteria , are you aware that each of us in our gut has more bacteria than it leads cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think , when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they can only wish for without any effort .
and so when people make decisions , and even if the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s really a light way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they matter for their lives .
they help in the digestion of essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in the form of a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago , on earth -- the first multi-celled organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is only short ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope d hatred it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i realized something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is being passed into both daughter cells .
but at the time , when multi-cellular organisms appeared , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that passes the genome on , the rest of the body becomes deprived .
in fact , you might say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies occurs in evolution at the same time as sexual reproduction .
now i have to admit , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed quite reasonable at the time , but with every year , it has come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns who performed his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel room door .
i believe a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have learned that are disappointing because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences to themselves , think it &apos;s their fault .
he opens the door .
he &apos;s got a beautiful , beautifully dressed showgirl in front of him .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that i worked to a goal that was different than the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradicting , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the visual result is that we &apos;re getting better in general , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i , like boster rockets , are designed to send the genetic question to the next level of orbit , and then to fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prices the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , there are bacteria that are thermophile , and in doing so , the hot steam will survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would have cooked fish , but they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the space of human beings in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to move forward .
in 1957 , five missionaries tried to connect and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reasons for that would be that , first of all , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and removed from the population .
and second , we , as a species , have designed our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us exactly as we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that you can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional way , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly maaling , but they are inexorable .
and as far as isolation goes , if we colonize , as a species distant , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a locking , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that is not just natural , but led and decided by us as an individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma , the one that we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be that we do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family chooses .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose the sex of your child , but also to do genetic adaptations in the body that would heal and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or to eliminate the risk of cancer or stroke ?
would you not want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than something .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in one to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long before reality will be that there will be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it will be more and more available for everyone .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and to lead desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- which frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize became the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research where he took a grown-up skin cell , a fibroblaste , and by manipulation of just four genes that induced the cell to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin produces in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself , but also serve immunity against other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it will be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs , or the newly fertilized egg , to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophiles , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the changes to prevent disease , could also enable us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the capability of a ken jennings , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from old style , evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point in a long time in selecting our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that is generally going to take 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or their grandchildren , have to deal with .
are we using these decisions to form a society that is better , that is more successful , that is more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society more diel-boring and uniform , or more robust and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions ?
in the good and in the evil , and before you may think , these decisions are going to be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman ability , or another that helps wheelchair drivers to stand up and go back .
now , as a principle of question -- i &apos;m almost finished -- as a basic question , the thing about thinking , what all of this choice does in the industrialized societies is the material wealth .
at berkeley bionics , we call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but what they &apos;re putting in the morning and that will give them extra strength and that will increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
that &apos;s actually the real confusion of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who , on average , has about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the request that they &apos;re supposed to carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc now -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard many of them whose problem is not too much of a choice .
his flexible design allows you to pick up deep , to crawl , and to perform extremely agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then it elevates my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re so far as to introduce this device to our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton that year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people sitting in the wheelchair worldwide .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about spinal cord injury , which is in the flowering period of your life -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- of destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so it &apos;s been , by the way , 500 years since , as i say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has the result that she has not been able to walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches , which send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached to her back here .
here are also batteries , the engine engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints that they move forward in this very smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and i was in best form when a monstrous pure tree , as a ski trip , paralyzed me .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement under my basin .
not long after that , a doctor in my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steals every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn how to ski , to climb again and even drive with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and argue with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the life of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry : steve levitt yesterday told you about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman &apos;s chief in a volunteer lion fire .
now , in our town where volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be pretty early on in the burn spot to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the branding site , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible main man and figure out what our jobs would be .
when i found the main man , he was having a very serious conversation with the homeowner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she stood in the stroke and barefoot under a screen in the rains as her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go into the house and save the dog of the house owner .
the dog ! i was out linguistic .
they threw down shiny photos of the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or a wealth administrator who could now tell the rest of his life to people that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than i was .
well , i was next .
the main man came to me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go into the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up on the fire , and you &apos;ve got to get some shoes from this woman . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i had hoped for , but i went -- up the stairs , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , &quot; which , at that point , were pretty much done with the deletion , to get some shoes in the bedroom .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back to the bottom , where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we carried our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , his much more attention than mine did .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fire guard got a letter from the homeowner , where she was thanking for the brave use of saving her house .
one of the things that was estimated is that somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my job at robin hood and in my side job as a fireman , i &apos;m a witness of generosity and kindness at large scale , but i also see the act of kindness and kindness of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in another &apos;s life until you get to your first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
serve in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
not every day will give us a chance to save the lives of a human , but every day , the opportunity to change one .
so get rid of it ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m coming back from a community that knows the secret to humanity &apos;s continuity .
it &apos;s a place where women are leading the recipe , with sex , saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationship .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the old-growth forest of congo .
if something of what enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , it would not only improve the lives of people , it would also improve our dignity .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve overstated this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by large , scary guys , the bonobo-society is led by empowered females .
they really have come up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the deep depths of the congolese forest , and they &apos;re hard to see .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been desert for decades , and has asked almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement rate .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos that are left -- and even there , we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have more frequent , also bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos &apos; life is made up of more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like humans -- love to play their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s a fundamental game for connecting relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all of these big choices are plaguing us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about creating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the ticket that holds us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage right from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and a male playing in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think it &apos;s more like it , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and a sophisticated person says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea wealth with which you bring new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game demands and promotes both trust -- while it &apos;s also immense fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take a lot of forms , some of which are a little quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they do , we play alone sometimes , and we express the limits of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real soil of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos gives us into our past and present .
but they also remain a secret to our future , a future where we have to adapt to more and more challenges , through greater creativity and printing , enhancing cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything about this gold fish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our game drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people equally , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play may be the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together , while we &apos;re rediscovering creativity and camerady and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at exactly the same moment , each one of them has a baby -- okay .
missed fantasy , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two pairs , each one of them has a baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because if you imagine all the time making , you won &apos;t listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries an x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survivable , both of them light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who question social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often i &apos;ve worked with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and in general , we can use the word intersexuality .
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible type of sexual variants that are not the male or female standard .
in one case , you may have someone with a xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms leaves the protogonads that we all have , the fetal stage , are all growing up to testicles .
and so the testosterone testosterone is the testosterone .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a result , the body develops more of the typical female trajectory .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until it reaches puberty and its breasts grow and develop , but it doesn &apos;t get its period until somebody comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian and utero , they actually have testicles in them , and they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
and the next one is to make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , as i do -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t really know my actual chromosome building , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk about androgens .
we &apos;re producing androgen , and we &apos;re talking about androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed across the range .
another example : a few years ago , i got the phone call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , had raised a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had ovaries and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were coined male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and they lower the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he was 19 years old that he got enough medical problems , actually , because he was inside of it that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variant of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , where ovarian tissue is wrapped up by testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- is often adapted to the norm , is not because this is for their physical health of advantage .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical surgery is because they threaten our social categories .
our system is typically based on the idea that a certain anatomic exploitation is coming in with a particular identity .
everyone needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman means having a female identity ; being a black person is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of its own history .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different to us , it confuses us in terms of these categories .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen the most exciting recently , the south african runner caster semenya was last year , whose gender was challenged by the leichatlethik world cup in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me on the question : &quot; what test will you do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female and intersexual ; in fact , we are pretending that line as natural .
this is almost entirely limited -- potentially for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation like this , where , the further our science continues , we have to admit to ourselves so much more that these categories that we thought were stable anatomical categories that made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just true of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re looking at the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re very different from them by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward , we &apos;re getting increasingly into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as a beipiel , in our current culture , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have hard conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than the fetal life .
but the hanging off of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
you &apos;ve kept a feather under your nose , and when it moved , you haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you &apos;ve buried it .
but today , we are in a situation where we take people out of vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we catch ourselves in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now , you might think that the whole thing would collapse in categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous .
understanding that these categories are actually much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about thinking about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of founding fathers .
i know they were race , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years , i found myself looking at the malignant musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they proved back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years for us was measurable .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of the birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited blood line from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and about the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all men were created equally .
they nivellized the play field , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities counted , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew up together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that a lot of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalist world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural nature , and proved things like a supernatural concept of power , back where the transmission is based on a very vague concepts of birth right .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and nature .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and so they &apos;ve been preparing , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired to the right to vote , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic communality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and an ovaries is not significant enough that we shouldn &apos;t have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to own property , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
the next one was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like soap truth , who spach it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which is based on anatomical similarities before anatomic differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing in the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start asking the question of why do we maintain certain divisions ?
now , well-remembered , i want to keep certain divisions , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds are supposed to be the right to give their attitude to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical divisions that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been put in place at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the mid-1979 , on the exact same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , three months old , was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani not only killed the outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do that on different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on the one of march 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born for three months in the spring , she gets all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have a good sex , to choose the right to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time he was born .
we also find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you think he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you think he &apos;s male , he can now be attracted to what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t see the same right in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in any state , but maria can only maria in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomical categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and to me , the question is : what are we going to do because our science makes such progress in the field of anatomy that we have to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy that is based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , sometimes it feels like science is self-assembling .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we &apos;re going to move it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught up in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas decided at a point that marrying a man means you don &apos;t have y chromosome , and marrying a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream speech &quot; a kind of solution .
he says that we should judge people not for &quot; their skin color , &quot; but after the property of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in the way of people , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever , which probably deserves social security rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labs dogs that are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relations than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the characteristics of the character ?
it turns out to be really hard .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it really seems to be important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done a really good job , and i think we &apos;re going to do our thing in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation of , for example , in iran , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to engage in a gender transformation in which case he can stay alive .
we don &apos;t have these kinds of conditions .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i phones with him , and i asked him why he made these interventions -- it was highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very poorly , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl rather than having surgery to separate them ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change for the state .
so i think we need to be leaders .
all right , just to finish , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or might have looked like , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , which is that i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to see if we can do that with an even smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of complex social relations and care for people who are vulnerable within the group , to give a lot of attention .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i went to graduate school , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there may be something on average , which makes women &apos;s brains different from male brains , which makes us more attention to highly complex social relations , and makes them more aware of the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that &apos;s here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely concerned about how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that , if we put more mothers into this concept , we &apos;ll get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we execute democracy over anatomy -- less about the individual body thinking about identity and more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that is : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find a different colorful , crazy outfit at every opportunity , wearing , and also photographing and blogging recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from second hand on the flymarket and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to our own . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after another , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment and also on my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping my own personal chess .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i &apos;ve been packing for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way to go forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome that allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants with me , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i have bet that i would find anything else that i might want to wear if i came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i found a couple of things .
and i want to show you my outfits this week .
does that sound good ?
while i do that , i &apos;m going to give you some of the lessons that i believe it or not , have learned from these adventures to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to create these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i looked like i &apos;m playing dressing , or i remember their seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re a wonderful person inside and outside , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody in this audience .
they went through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to do these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s just waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in the heart and i &apos;m looking for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome is , by the way , just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , all together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point .
that &apos;s what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy is growing up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because , in formula 1 , something very interesting has happened in the past few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , the information from the car , pass that information on to the system and then process it and then use it to send that car back and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in the digitization of life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made out of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting end .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems begin to appear in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as a computer in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
if we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , it &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it &apos;s still increasing , and our final point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this sensation and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost as if each atom out there becomes both of them , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we have people out of our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means that he ended up taking the hammer and throwing it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath it -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you tell ? &quot;
well , today , our environment is starting to answer us for the first time .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with perceivation .
now the first project i want to introduce you to is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was we actually used a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a cell phone network -- and to use anonymous and aggregated information from this network , which is actually collected from the operator anyway , to understand how the city works .
summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of the zidane , the headrest .
and anyway , italy won the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see the colosseum in the middle , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , who make calls and move .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gateway .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of head shock .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everyone went to the center to meet the seven-team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
well , this is just one example of how we feel today , in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our stuff comes from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that a mac computer is made of , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things that you can see -- things that you would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the garbage , and we start tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method that allowed us to assemble these little bits and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we think that if we see every day that the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day still stays there .
and if we showed that to people , then we can drive a change in behavior .
so that &apos;s why this project is happening .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about what &apos;s going on and tell you the many other wonderful things that you can do with perceivation , but i &apos;d like to talk to the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water as part of architecture in public places .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology with it ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they &apos;re creating something like a water curtain with a little bit of water .
if these points fall down , you can write on it , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he will open up to jump through them , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavilion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and let it go .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened by drilling through .
it &apos;s a small virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building and become the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , these days , when you go down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building ; it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me , when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
well , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was an even bigger fun .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because , as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are being used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery points , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these dots could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of you with a little point of view with changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , which moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have that cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a uniform formation in two dimensions .
or infrequently , in three dimensions , where what changes is , the light is not the position of the images .
you can play with different kinds of things .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or different sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of imagery that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you can see a real flyfire-controller coming down to form a smooth v like we used to .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single one of people is being controlled .
it could have a impulse every single point of imagery that comes from people , from the movements of people or so on .
i want to show you something first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use it as a impulse for the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the scores , the different inmates .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so that you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the scores , they can play with it and play with color , gravity and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
i was talking to the oil industry recently , and they said that they were doing this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re going to bring back to people to do something and to change the environment -- almost what we call a cloud movement , how to move a scheunor , but with a cloud .
imagine that anybody can give a little donation to a point of view .
i think the remarkable thing about what happened last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and makes it accessible through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign in obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than they do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of points of imagery in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of points of imagery .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but it &apos;s covered with images .
you can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for the olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light tower in the night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very important about the context .
so we think that this is a situation in the software that can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i try to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i got awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as a calf of a glacier , or they break out of ice customs .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and clone to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse into a dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we often see people .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome . it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in cassette tapes from the size of the virus , which we could variate the size of the cassette to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from that .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its temporary atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i take my pictures of these icebergs as if i make portraits of my ancestors , in the awareness that they exist in these individual moments , and never will exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end ; it &apos;s a progression of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the icebergs that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you actually get witnesses of a rolling iceberg .
so here it is .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be false .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just so , the iceberg shows you another side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate in a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking and he said , &quot; paps , my legs are crying . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the thing .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was facing him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and to support his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in the reset , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to talk to him again , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you hear the higher social class and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
ordinary people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate now ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly &quot; and the diving bell ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how could that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to make pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units so that they can fit them together .
so i came with the need to just put a check out , and instead i put a check , which i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to fix .
i committed to his brother and his father in place -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to speak , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw with a laser pointer on it , which only regimes the negative area .
so they &apos;re moving around and making art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sex parts , and then the sharppers come , and then the bush publishing , and finally people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife at night and told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control things , we should find a way to control a laser , so that he can make graffiti again , that would be brilliant . &quot;
we &apos;ve put unique elements in here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved a few things .
first , we ran into the insurance doors , and we actually got a device for speed that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you &apos;re talking to him , or you &apos;re getting an email , and you &apos;re like , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy &apos;s incredible . &quot;
we &apos;ve also flown seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my kids and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
a lot of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do this , and that we came back and all the images on the walls would be silly .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the venice beach program , my kids were brought in , my dog was also , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we put watermarks in .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach promenade , a little copper wire and a couple of things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of limitations .
no insurance can make up .
not a hospital either .
now , any paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw alone with their eyes .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to speed &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this fame before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and went through nights , tony first drew back after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve taken his bed , so he can look outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve done something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone has taken down and raised my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
it &apos;s kind of like our fight cry .
that keeps us in touch , and it keeps us going .
and we need to improve a lot more about this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic board that &apos;s the same .
and somebody who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve gotten all kinds of recognition .
we &apos;ve won a few prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered over us and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest part is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that this april , when moca in downtown los angeles , is going to be an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and it &apos;s going to be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene there -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty much out .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , then make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with generic technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people , so that together we could put something on the legs .
and that question should be asked each of you , every single day that you get something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
at first , we only signed up .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most promised children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , one enlightenment is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at the high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy that i know you &apos;ve found him .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at them , we laughed , we cried , and we knew it had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight to their family , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult met me , she turned into a box full of ashes and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation i talked about .
the revelation is that death is a part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , and we put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so happy that this is so often mentioned here today .
he needs the same -- he needs love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the sound , the sound , the sound , the sound , the sound , the sound , the sound , the sound , the sound .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we &apos;ve made these pieces overshooting so we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we were not that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot did the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most intuitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready for the crash . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the borders anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in your eyes , there was a horror , life was over .
so i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to reach a hand and didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
as i was thinking about it later , i came up with a saying that said , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because when the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to make a difference in life .
and that urgency , that goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair &apos;s width -- i thought , boy , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to become better in everything that i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i thought about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock starts to count , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , ... &quot;
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow into e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re falling down , i had this feeling of dying , man , is not terrifying .
almost as if we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a homologous recombination mechanism that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble those pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense for me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is just about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i was given the miracle to not die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine that the same thing happens on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine , and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to push up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococccus radiodurans , which survives three million rays of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is actually quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for nuclear weapons development is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control filters and valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we &apos;re able to get an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we &apos;re starting with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damages the centrifuge , and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commissioning .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we &apos;ve figured that out .
when we started our research six months ago , it was completely unknown , which was the purpose of this construction .
the only thing we knew was very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , made by countless zero-day-flawed use .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a laboratory rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniff it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has been put together again in the way it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with various types of cheese , i realized that this is a target attack .
completely targeted to a particular goal .
the dropper actively strikes the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that it &apos;s trying to infect is on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , for example , a user-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the code of attack , and we found that it &apos;s structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a larger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine service .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see an excerpt from the code of attacks .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-working calls , because we know what they were doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what the species of the animal was .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could take or refuse .
in order to make these theories , let &apos;s remember that it &apos;s definitely high-quality sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely to be in iran , because that &apos;s where most infections were reported .
well , there aren &apos;t a thousand goals in this area .
basically , it goes out to the buschehr nuclear power plant and the uranium plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; take me a list of all the centrifuge and power plants from our client . &quot;
and i called them up and tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise with what we found in code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead with the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to let it happen slowly and incredibly -- obviously in the attempt to have warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse , looking at very precise data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuge are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attack ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , the fit was really good together .
and this gave us great confidence for what we looked at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and had to regather ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading towards the same goal , but from different directions .
the little leap head takes over a cascade , and turns the rotors and slows them down , and the big jump head comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulate valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s natance , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a shot of the molecule that we made using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefe-mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them , and then we automatically assembled them .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- has really taken me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming value of sensors -- which is , for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still running during the attack , with the wrong data .
and in fact , this false incoming data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the tracking chase , the monitoring system is being fed with prior video footage .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just overlists the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope ; this is a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within a millisecond .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , then really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the leaders of the machine , nor the security system will notice .
that &apos;s frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge in particular , with judgment .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
this is the consequence that we have to consequence .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
this is footage over six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to confront the consequences , and we start to prepare for ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion too ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is the cyber superpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , luckily .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for hunting us a heating fear . thank you , ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and kind of dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing most of my career to the extent of terrible situations , and just to try to study social issues in the way that they are compelling and interesting , and hopefully , in a way , understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with definite structure ever created by people .
some of you may have heard that i turned on an ad on ebay a couple of weeks ago .
i sent some facebook news , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights to my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profits , got the one-time opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let that go -- to buy the name rights of the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now that didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues to what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject will be , and that could eventually fly you around your ears for content , especially if i left your company for your involvement .
but , apart from that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a whole lot .
this , by the way , is just the title of work .
so despite that warning , i knew that somebody would buy the name rights .
now if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re exploring the world of marketing , advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty terrible situations , but nothing could get me prepared , nothing could get me to do anything as difficult and as dangerous as going into a room with these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole movie is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold &quot; is that everything from top to bottom , from beginning to end , is completely missed with brands -- from the front sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , this is the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadion , the state center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the movie will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalians and tonton macoutes , and the toxin that was used to make zombies .
if we were to print it with a 10-page size , and without distances , it would encompass 142 pages , just to print out this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not only going to have the brand x as a title sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it &apos;s going to be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , an awareness of &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are a part of life , actually , to get them to fund the movie ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so that &apos;s the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how recipient people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective &quot; because it has a negative connotation -- but do you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde of people .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be very likely &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , with a virus , it &apos;s very simple . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a hard thing to do about the movie or a difficult thing about me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands are .
yes .
if you look at the people you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as simple if you do it in eukaryontes as we are , you just take out the nucleus and you put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; make the camera out of &quot; meant that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have anything to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible makes it as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but it &apos;s only recently shown that you can take a whole transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal error , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that was not the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
see , if you type in transparency in the google search , that &apos;s -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and see through it , instantly , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome . we degraded it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to appreciate our very sophisticated graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole dish of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , an agency was willing to help us -- and that &apos;s just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a comprehensive problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make huge , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
every time i get on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they so far ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion , &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they will have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short term .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite census .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we are a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
what words would you describe ban in ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of something where , every time thousands of characteristics add to a species in just a second .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes a difference , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing box ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto normal consumers .
i want you to tell me a little bit about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
well , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that will have changed at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s , revival hits skate points , except on a wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but i usually have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would be probably a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am , i would say , is reliable fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell chimneys all over the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
my brand is fedex , because i was exposed .
man 5 : brand of failed alcohol addicts .
can you do that ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added already .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tomb brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and reliable fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could invade my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nests , febreeds , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
that &apos;s what i have . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how that connects to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world in which you live -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is this in the context of the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are special . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had added .
what is the machete ? what puppet stage are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that your brand personality separated two , but it has extensive pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth / vertical brand .
they do very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies are just going to focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a great chess .
what other brands are doing ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
now , there are playful brands and remarkable brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , mindful brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed , the membranes changed -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eightful , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative , conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , dropped out and lovely like erol flynn , agile , profitable , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you eight and monthly like 007 ?
are you established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , safe , native , holy , considerable , and the way the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the movie , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies that said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they didn &apos;t have control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to give up on this control , who wanted to do business with somebody as mindful and playful as i do , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually tell -- stories that a commercial would never have supported .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this movie , that today you use mris to pin the pleasure centers of the brain , both to make advertising and to make movies .
we went to sao paulo , where outdoor advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , there has been no timeline for five years , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove to school districts where companies are going their way into impoverished schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i got the biggest success , are the ones where i directly interacted with things .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think our worldview challenges .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the movie was on the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrale , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
it &apos;s actually just a two-and-a-half weeks period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film has not been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of the cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
now , finally , the film has acquired a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency we talked to has recommended their customers to let them go .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks that are in these risks .
i think if you stop people from that , you get them closer to failure .
i think that when you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that as we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that they might be afraid of .
finally , when we move forward , we should be welcome to fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
each one of these big spots full , so we &apos;re going to take the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us a lot .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; was presented to you by my good friends of emc who paid $ 7100 for the name rights of ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this is what happened with the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check of $ 7100 to fund my ted performance the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i talked about doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who is also today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and access to it .
i grew up in india .
i was given a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have access to many museums and these artworks .
so when i was traveling and visiting these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this longing -- making art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i think i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the beginning .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in in in two ways -- very simple .
click , and whum , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just move on . a lot of fun .
hide them .
thank you , but the best is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite paintings , beter breugel workers at the met .
i see this record mark .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
so this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;m going to click away .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep into it .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that there was something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went up close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , i spoke to some familiar people at the met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the end of the day .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to get really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
but the best is still -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strike ?
and what if you want to see how van gogh has created this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom into one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
that &apos;s star night , probably never seen that way before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30 plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , everyone -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these pictures , you can make your own collection .
it &apos;s very simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s the power of zoom -- you can zoom in .
that &apos;s what it is , in the national alongside .
you can put it all in terms of remarks , send your friends , and so you can start talking about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
and i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to be able to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question that i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do that to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitudes of each hemisphere , we could map their brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is in both hemisphere at the same time .
it &apos;s not as if they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good fraction of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we have now , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and we play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing can only be in a place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing is in two different places at the same time , but they weren &apos;t born with this idea , they &apos;ve developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a ground threshold .
he was another child , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was always falling .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you alone , and they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with the soil swells , but they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of strange things -- like you fly directly through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play that often with particles .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all these things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow all the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
what we &apos;re doing is primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so i would feel more clearly about the whole thing if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i set out to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re looking at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesized methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and i recovered for 100 hours on all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m in the elevator alone , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i listen to all these things , because i don &apos;t want to harm them , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that inmovable objects feel the same way .
the drivers for inmovable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by them and the heat of space .
we now have the opportunity to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that piece of metal acts quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the passengers .
and that &apos;s what we did .
we turned off the light , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked up all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as usual .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange to move .
instead of just sitting there , it vibrated . the way it was vibrating was kind of like this -- like a stretching and parenting bubble balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that is allowed only in the quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you is what &apos;s truly fantastic .
what does it mean for an object at the same time to vibrate and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or medicines , new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a single team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just too precise time points , they agree .
they &apos;re delocalized for the rest of the time .
that means that each atom is in two different places at the same time , which means that the entire piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
this was worth closing for me all this year in the clean room , because , check this out , the massstable difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if at the same time you were in multiple places , what would that feel like ?
and it &apos;s just a single selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production , vaccination and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with the fact that your body is delocalized in space ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it turns out that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , where you actually sit down and you know new species on computers .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
we &apos;re far from this goal right now .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could do the world very easily with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just swap out the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments are doing this already ; half of the people who don &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you &apos;re going to be in for , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid and deflect from degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code will look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get into all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new housing block , assuming the laws there would support such a construction and not stop it .
so i proposed that governments create new surfaces that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that about the same time , jafour and octavio , about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans leave their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and be able to do exactly the same in honduras .
at this point , ja4 said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take a blank area of our country -- what if we just give it a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian bottleneck , and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do everything they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a major comprehension crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovation and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his stable .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , trying and investigating consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws , which determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give great attention to new technologies , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him jafour .
they called me .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country . &quot;
so we met in december in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they are .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and creating art .
if i asked you to count the big world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , we might be able to look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , represented that a charter city is a place that is beginning to be an uninhabited country , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there , and gives people the opportunity to decide , either living under those rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another one with a filled talk , which includes a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have second and third generation fuels that are going to come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have him on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be a way to live in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships , which they would be supporting in the legislation of this charter , and in the implementation that everyone can trust that the charter is actually being implemented .
and the insight of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equivalent to all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and mistrust for many years .
we went to an area .
but as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact without further increases in the cost of food or the limitation of their availability is when we see co2 as an output material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it sums up a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted for a change in the constitution to have a comprehension policy that is reliable to particular developmental areas .
in a country that has just been in the past of a major crisis , congress has been elected for this change in constitution with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the issues of society , supported this .
in order to become part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time at 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in going into the business of the city hall .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first ones with fourth generation fuels , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get permits .
the other place that was very interested in building cities is singapore .
there &apos;s already been two cities built in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you think about it effectively , it &apos;s where we are today .
you already have a building site , and you &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already worked on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
and also urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring funding in .
one thing , as you already know , has been enlightened , there &apos;s a lot of rent .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place all the time .
a million people are leaving latin america every year and going to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families back to look for work -- sometimes single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to eat and dress .
unfortunately , sometimes even kids are trying to find their parents , who they haven &apos;t seen for a decade , in some cases .
so what is it for an idea of thinking about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building dutch of these cities , or distributing hundreds all over the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all kinds of different ways .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that a typical american does in one day is 70 .
also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they were watching the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that this ceo has been doing , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and what they &apos;ve found is that an average ceo is busy doing 139 tasks a week .
each of these issues was , of course , of many , many smaller decisions .
fifty percent of their decisions were made within nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus the one in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re in getting the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision overlap problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , just the hand , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the decision overlap problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store ; at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk water .
i loved to go to this business , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those that were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years of old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to visit the filialleiter , and i asked the director , &quot; does this model work that you really provide to people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras on it .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marker gait .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane under the use of hydrogen as an energy source .
we set up a little costing bag right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : one , what case would more people stand and try marmelade ?
more people have stayed when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people bought a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stood up when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of march .
of the people who stood up when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you do the math , people would buy six times more of a glass of marble , who you had six choices than if you had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision overlap problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose , even though it &apos;s against our best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be put into production stores , converting the co2 into fuel to power this process .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the choices to save the retirement of nearly a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the likelihood of saving more for tomorrow .
and what we found was that there was actually a context .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people anything between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , in fact , that participation was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that were offering two fonds , they had a participation rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fund , the participants now fell to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you have to participate in deciding , when more choices have been choices , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to have more opportunities available to them , the more rent they could choose actia and fund .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more opportunities they had , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that someone would recommend from people when their future financial welfare is important .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in humans that offer more and more choices .
they push the decision -- push it up , even when it comes to their best interest .
they make rather worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they tend to choose more for things that they make themselves less satisfied , even if they make it objective .
the main reason for this is that we may enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparison and limitations and actually choose something out of the fantastic supply .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , limits .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than today that less is more .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? the main source of energy to be .
people are always concerned when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real estate .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to be limited , and the unimportant opportunities are going to get rid of , well , then there &apos;s an increase in sales , there &apos;s a reduction in the cost of reducing &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s a improvement in decision-making .
as proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulders species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of the 10 worst selling cat diffusion , they experienced that the profits went up 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the world &apos;s nine-largest supermarket , is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that have recently come to the market , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson has been very strongly designing , it &apos;s a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard employees now automatically participate in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to develop vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t tell you apart , your customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started this morning , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to provide all the people in this audience an all-included vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the road .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap when you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with flu , we &apos;re always on the back of it , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s willing to accept gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of it .
you knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that they were objectively looking at the first time more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that they felt it the second time more real .
because the images made it feel real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision overlap , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people to understand the difference between possibilities , to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and to have to feel vividly and concrete these consequences .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more on using an ec-map or a credit card than on bardollars ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so we did a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , and we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it was , but we added a little thing to it .
the little thing that we added to it was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was a 20 percent increase in participation , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four percent increase in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
this is what the future might look like with changes , and today the evolutionary tree can be accelerated with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
here , for example , is a study we did in a magazine process .
it turns out that in the absence of supermarkets up and down in the northeast , it varies the number between 31 different kinds of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choices and a better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 versus the one if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry layers .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the one on the left is swing , and the one on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is just to have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to say something to the voter , not the one who provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you actually want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think , we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer that gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to design your car completely .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they provide per decision .
car color , outside the car -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i do now is i change the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from the many ways , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many options .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested you are .
if you &apos;re constantly using the standard choice in the decision , that means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing you .
what you find is that the people who go from the many to the low choices possible dough over and over and over again choose the standard selection .
we lose them .
go from the little choices to the many , then you stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses , it doesn &apos;t tell me anything about my indoor preferences , it still prepare me to choose .
so this is it . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment ever approached -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be with interest .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision-making -- limited -- get rid of the superfluid alternatives ; concretize -- make it real ; categorize it -- we can deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i describe to you today is meant to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people that you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in choosing .
and the more we &apos;re choosing , the better we &apos;re going to be able to make the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager on youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos become viral , and then we want to talk about why that &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa there was no religious faith , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came across during the tragic slideshow of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the beginning of the universe -- up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but webvideos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become insanely famous in a part of our world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet until next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded per minute .
again , only a tiny percentage ever gets viral and is looked at thousands of times and so on at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participatory communities and the unexpected .
well , we want to do that .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel coming .
jimmy kimmy kimmel sent the tweet that ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks friday is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was almost 200 million times looked at this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like the double rainbow , it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know , these other tips are also free-days .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
now , tosh.0 , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or a group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared with a large audience , and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insider joke , and started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of friday on youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
i &apos;m working on this . he &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was almost 50 million times viewed .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that was looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that is in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we &apos;re doing with it .
who could have looked at all this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what scripts could you have written in which this is the urgent ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only really can produce unique and unexpected videos that i mentioned .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested in this when a friend said i should look at this great video , about a guy protesting in new york for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike path , but there are often disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike path .
since that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestatus &apos;s funny idea and his argument was looked at five million times .
this approach is true of everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine was running for the first time .
and all of this leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and in which the audience is popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- did his beginning on youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today , we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the entertainment of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man burning his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
think of him as the march of the communist in saigon , as he has to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , now mocked his .
he returned to silence .
he died , broken through history .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat in the early morning red quiet is in the sea .
my mother , may 18 , when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film ride saga , a boat was silent on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put the entire distance around the lhc , then deliberately collided with a part of the lhc to make a rain from particles to the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear they were afraid of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was wearing a little poison bottle .
if you took a prisoner , first my sister and i , then you and my grandmother would have drunk .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of each wave on the bow , the vast and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death courage of the men on our boat , or the waste of the engine who didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that gave me one of the men on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like that again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we went down to footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the smells from the latin belt came from the rest of the world .
and the feathers were broken english was exchanged between people who had one thing in common : they started fresh .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , twice layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was divided and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , these were new things that always came from second hand .
two strands for school , each to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this , when someone went to google site and found the front page .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; close eye , &quot; and here and there are murals : &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something got upset in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movement of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came so that i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then she did a cosmetic education , and she opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t experience change , angry and inflexible , and sorted children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers have been built up .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who made inexorable demands for himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , in my last year of law school , i was chosen as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous footscray resident , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who was invited to lectures in places that she had never heard of , and in homes that she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the brick .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters , who have graduated from each of their days as close as 20 years , by telling each other the stories of their day and asleep , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youthlessness and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires run 13-thousand ampere when the machine is running on high performance .
i met people in all of their lives , so many of them did what they loved , living on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because it can be so easily related to the collapse of the horizon , it can be so easy that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone enough from my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
opportunities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and guesswork .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i was collecting a small team of people around me , and the shoe doesn &apos;t go into an unresistant challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i was cooking a giant cloth soup that we shared .
we worked till late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a couple of brilliant things , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just a trip there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and local mandarin the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after she was born .
her mother moved her own .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
with no support for her husband , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to court , and she was in her own case , and she was an even bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; can &apos;t &quot; turn out to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes later .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can withstand the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their coffin .
we told her stories , and we made sure we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding them since this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you look at who we were and how life has shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to the bottom of us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over nine-thousand magnets at the lhc , there was a manufactured fect .
now i &apos;d like my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of contemplation .
can i give you a bug in your life that drives courageously every wave , the uncontributed , steady scarce of the engine , the broad horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this , and i could safely pass it , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is here in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share with you my photography .
is it photography at all ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and in doing so , the wires are getting a little bit low and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountering electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my former preferences for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because when the camera was using it , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so to me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pushed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much traveled road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , there &apos;s a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living gestures are the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can actually catch , but i always want to make it look like you could have done that in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a brief moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , this is even more impressive if you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s about what we think is realistic .
so i think the basics are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects here that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a particular way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re missing our brains , because our brains just don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but if we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of illumination .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- taken from the same height and the same kind of illumination .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and we had to remove them , which we did .
so by adding color , contrast and brightness to the edges , adding photographic defects to the edges , like the field depth , like the degraded colors and the disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , although a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think this is just a landscape , and the bottom one has been manipulated .
but in fact , this picture is completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on an anglerial trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconstructed them , repaired them .
and indeed , i &apos;ve colored the house up on the top of the island red to make it look more swedish .
so to get to a realistic outcome , it comes out of me , looking out at planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here &apos;s every piece that &apos;s very well designed .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way now .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major listener .
she doesn &apos;t do a particularly scientific job -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea , and she asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are failing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she has a button , on / off .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i put my job at 95 kilos .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be able to work again .
and there , they &apos;re also called away from my general doctor so that he can see where my weight problem is , not just the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a glimpse of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump on my wallet , and people talk to me before i &apos;m in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little lettuce today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group forced , group forced to help patients , because this could be used for obesity , or it could be used for patients to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
next week , it comes to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , to send them to their doctor and to share it with others , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , and not only can they take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us with health care , with the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , twice demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect first data to be able to collect in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make ways that are easy to use and start hugging patients on the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a quick video .
we have all navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the maastricht atms are around the maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we were asking around , and no one knew .
well , of course , in a way , these accidents are again returning the debate around the value of science and engineering at such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like that .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we designed an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone breaks down , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and from today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product calls itself , but also as aed4us .
and we want to bring this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like knot points to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone breaks down , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
for example , these could be copper services , or technicians , just to make sure that the aed is still in its place .
please help us , and try to improve health , not just by taking control , but by hand .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to conserve by ...
it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be sucked up by the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to extend the soul of the living precedented , so that the acolyth becomes a short shining moment to god .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i suspect , defended the useless experiments of his apprentice , his apprentice was michael faraday , he said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind to assume that our scientific ideas are inherent , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumphs are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this over -- i &apos;ll just jump over the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is pretty much everything that they actually hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called code for america , and it &apos;s a little bit like the computer freaks peace corps .
we pick some fellows every year , and we let them work with city-management .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to rathubs .
and they developed great apps there , worked with urban employees .
but what they really do is show what is possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he really is looking for is somebody who &apos;s releasing him when he &apos;s on the ground , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at burning when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , in addition to the code for america .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of screaming last february .
and they realized that the city never gets these hydrants free .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik moleels-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed up the sidewalks right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you &apos;re tuning out to him when it races .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my job , of course , but it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows have written last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s rapidly spreading .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. department of the city of honolulu , who has seen that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens of tsunami sirens to adopt .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sires work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can release the bullet when it &apos;s rapid .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread frictionlessly , organically , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
it usually takes a few years to get software .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year , which took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method that parents can find out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it went over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that the taxpayer has cost two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that is written in a few days , and then spreads from rarely is a kind of a shot before the bug on the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect this to ever change .
it shows how government could work better -- not more like a private company , how many people think it should work .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , that means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a selled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to actually get things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with it , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , something strange has happened in my life and my career that has made me completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do on our own . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government finally exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change is happening .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like many people , i thought the government was all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that most of all , it &apos;s about marsupial rats .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called galaxy , pray , love -- that , unlike all my previous books for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international best seller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government because of many different problems , including a thylacine rat in their house .
so scott gets this fertilizer .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal catcher .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock &apos;s skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacine rats .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i were in the process .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the new urban mechanics office in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in , &quot; thylacine rat in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacine rat ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- refused to the end !
turned the garbage can on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine rat . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of the government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
and the voodoodooists like to say , &quot; you know , go to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very concerned about me and you say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have combined them with government services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to remember that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is voting .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we recline , and we expect the government to reflect our values and fulfill our needs , and then we don &apos;t change much ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and we pay for , something that works against us , something else , and then we did ourselves .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machinery of the government .
so the occupythesia movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo legislation to the financial reform .
that &apos;s not political , that &apos;s bureaucratic .
well , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave to our children .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to get more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up looking at their voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting , about who to talk ; they &apos;re all allowed to talk .
you can make your mind at any channel at any time , and you do .
so when you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told , as a teenager , that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to release a hydrant , to hunt a weeds , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question that i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all of us will be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to succeed ? &quot;
usually , my role in explaining to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up are going to be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can &apos;t keep up with .
i &apos;m going to start by just showing you a single boring slide .
... you could just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general form .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some others that we often meet in our field , is a kind of a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is a potential at the scale of performance .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this type of scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is happening here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a decline is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights , please .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a way , and this is a random measure of technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph is going to be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , say , a transportation technology , that would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if the transportation technology was going as fast as the microprocessor technology was going on , we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds , we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to take this craftsmanship and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a junk of dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it doesn &apos;t go so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , which is increasing exponentially in scale every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it will become a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it will happen here .
it &apos;s something like that .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think of something like this .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re right now in the middle of a transition .
here we are , in this line , in a transition from the current world to a new kind of world .
something like that , you know .
so the question that i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be good ?
what is this new state that the world is starting to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was a future somewhere in 2000 , and people would often talk about what was going to happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you find that the future is still in 2000 .
we don &apos;t go further than that .
so in other words , the future has declined by a year since i &apos;ve been in the world every year .
and i think the reason for that is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense at the moment to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple wedding of what we &apos;re doing just doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , yes .
so i want to talk about what this could be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because in order to really understand this , i think we need to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer time scale .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and at 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone pill with a lot of it floating chemicals .
now if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they were doing this .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was blowing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet had a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from the outside and grow .
all of them were like this , started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet in mind were the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t about living in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a little random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal amounts .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth more optimal composition faster than others and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside and divided faster .
so these tendencies to survive longer , and they multiply at a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but it &apos;s more interesting when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t quite understand , these droplet has learned the ability to write information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this insane , evolutionary way , they found a way to allow them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
and the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information to store over the time of 2.5 billion years that it was born remained the same .
in fact , the recipe for us , which is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same writing .
and that is that every being uses exactly the same letter and the same code .
we are so far that we can only write for pleasure , even in this code .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white powder here , which i try to keep away in airports from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of regular letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 or 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written them on a virus and released them into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the scripting of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened where things became completely different , and that is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities of cells were born .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have this information written into the dna with other bacteria , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
now this communication allowed the reason of communities that were in a certain sense the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , and that meant that if a community succeeded , all the individuals of the community were more repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition point is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different types of cells that work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we are also such a multi-celled community .
we have many cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve so that the level that evolution took place was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step has happened now within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently and wondering , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning has happened within the period of lifespan of a single organism , rather than through this evolutionary time period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifespan of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years to do so , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , these information structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could take place within a time learning framework .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most subtle version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving grunting sounds of me , hoping to create a very confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve begun to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multicellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods of holding data , processing .
for example , the invention of language was a little step in this direction .
telephony , computers , video receivers , cd roms , and so on , are all our specialized mechanisms that we &apos;ve built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time span of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to do the work that they have to do ?
you also saw tys &apos; little evolutionary example , where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve faded the time scale again .
the first steps in history that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what about the creative enterprises is that they make us uncertain about each other &apos;s state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do is , we think at a certain abstract level , we give this machine , and the machine makes something that goes way beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even understand so far .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond space .
so to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist where he was asked to be a chemist .
now , please do all of these randomly chosen instructions , do all the programs , and finally choose the ones that are closest to me . &quot;
so in other words , i first define what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , which is a simple example that i &apos;ve been using for .
so , find programs that can make the most sophisticated numbers .
of course , the chance in randomly elected instructions is very small that they &apos;re at random , so probably none of the instructions are going to actually do this .
but one of them may be lucky enough to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come next to my presentations .
store them down , delete the rest .
now , all the remains that the numbers have best reproduced .
it &apos;s with a way of recombining , analog to reproduce . &quot;
with your chemist blockage , john -- how are you doing with that ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little bit closer to the presentations than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluating them again .
maybe have some mutations .
and try it again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can run a evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in a more complicated case , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sorrow numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so if i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure you do the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he got a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an development process is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classic engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the chemist group , over the centuries , did not get the reputation of alcohol people who are depressed .
it allows us to do things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibilities of that yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we &apos;re going to take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time when one cell organisms evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite make up what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not only the writers , but the creatives of all genres seem to have this call , seem to be mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i find it very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think we all here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
well , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about how nothing has changed since the age of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at the time , we would jump into a car and swirl across the sky .
now we do this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds just from the 20th century , the young and often died of your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince of arjuna had thirst , he took a bow , shot into the ground and water .
now we &apos;re doing this with drillers and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch .
this piece of 50-year-old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually make suicide seem really neglected by their talents .
i felt like our fancy clocks and cameras were holding us off .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the technology world to see how i could use it to enable magic instead of killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers all over the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling always needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter is falling down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , i don &apos;t mean magicians and kites , i mean the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and leave the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put into a single murmur .
and so every book and every world becomes a little murmur that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magical device in the machine .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to do something that is indian , but also very time-consumed .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody saying that , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve embraced the idea that creativity and suffering somehow belong together , and that art -- at the end of the day -- always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of fees and nymps , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras chambers for thousands of years in an old bold book .
and we bring them back , in a contemporary story for children .
a story about new issues , like the environmental crisis .
in the theme of the environmental crisis , one big problem of the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely okay for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the image of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you actually took .
there are a variety of ways to connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad and you see , through augmented reality , an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away , and read the rest of the book .
we all move towards a world where the natural forces of technology are getting closer and closer to the magic and technology can approach .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic and fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized that ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence in the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and power that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family &apos;s argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo akolyths in a trcestate , the glowing coal without burning , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a way that prevents it when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it go into the next century .
it was also the origin of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could hardly breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again . when i said &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
and she was doing something that always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative encouragement .
the only problem was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get their attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went into the living room . all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room and staring at me .
first of all , i thought this was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this went on for 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and she came over to me , and she took me by the hand , and she said , &quot; come , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that it would be , for me , in my situation -- very dangerous to start , this dark path of conjecture , in a way , to shrink down -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in right now , in my career .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me outside and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t tell me . &quot;
i said , &quot; excuse me , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey word ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat down and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
and then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandmother . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; the first thing you do is you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; the next thing i want you to do is to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought about it , and i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack beer with him , my sister and i went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a beat of beer and offered one to my sister , and she assumed , and then she offered one to me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , let &apos;s do this . now we do this , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do you . just do you . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink something . &quot;
and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re still not going to go crazy because of the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is reviewed by the world as the work that came from the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be broadcast in public .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity is doing .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren that they were special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
i &apos;ll tell you , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncle died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , despair and hopelessness are because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , released on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , abandoned on currency or with conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also degraded by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that will treat them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
yet , we seem to be very satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we have lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state of alabama takes you permanently the right to vote when you &apos;re convicted .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the black population has constantly lost their voting right .
we &apos;re projecting that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as before the law of voting .
silence is obscure .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , there are lifelong sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue doing this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is , did a human deserve to die for a crime of him ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anybody deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we &apos;ve executed , one that we &apos;ve found for innocent has been deposited and discharged from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique incidence of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the galaxy from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia were the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly on an airplane , if for nine airplanes that take off , one will fall off .
but somehow , we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i talk a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we are right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after a while of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that formed their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re talking to people , you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in the history of our nation , we have to do with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , racial review and decades of rapidly motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there is a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a safe distance between myself and my very natural sticking about what the reaction will be to the written .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping together .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
we have a hard time talking about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that race is not over without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , it can never be there . &quot;
and as i &apos;ve been looking for models last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more reasonable ideas about this than we can help to deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it got silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever refer to the systematic killing of people .
it would be unconscious of us to be aware and targeted by people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state let people move , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unconscious .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re going to take people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the black is charged and the victim knows -- in the same states where the earth is resting the yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnection .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this is a quest that led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but finally , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , degradation , limitation .
it seems important to me to unite both .
because what we &apos;re talking about is that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to insist in a complex world .
to me , it means time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe at the end of the day things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rationally as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart-to-heart connection , which i think is what drives us to be not just open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic things .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said this .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything . but what we needed the most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witnesses . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities need to engage in .
there is no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be fully human , unless we have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
she &apos;s going to touch them deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting rosa parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , okay ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white man , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women would come together and just talk .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , i love it . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
i sat there one day , and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the same initiative is right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine divinity that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are you trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
and i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do injustice .
wr wants to help people who were convicted innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences with no child injuries .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divinity spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned in front of me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and that &apos;s why you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be copper .
we need to find ways to face these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
it &apos;s known by socrates that he thought he had a demonstration that would tell him from a distance .
if somebody takes something that they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill somebody , you &apos;re not just a murderer .
and because that is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the earth , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so stimulating , we &apos;re not going to end up being measured to our technology , not the things that we &apos;re developing , not the things that we think about , not our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is measured not by how to treat its rich and powerful and privileged , but by how to deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re starting to understand the truly amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people returned into an isolated volcanic massive that goes up over the caribbean coastal plain .
the roman had the same idea , called this kind of physically creative mind , a galaxy .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas are rushing ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishments .
i go to the study prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and who should be on trial as an adult .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long , and i thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he must have magic .
right , bryan , the judge has magic .
that &apos;s great . the roman didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also want them .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think properly , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this brief , and the headline was , &quot; contract , my poor , 14-year-old black clients , to treat the privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that the misconduct of the state department and the police and the failures of the crime were to be careful .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there is nothing wrong in this country , that there is only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed this crazy contract or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i &apos;d not only written it , but i &apos;d sent it to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine that was believed to be living in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and the artist at work would sort of be invisible and make the result of the work .
i got in the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i put the staircase up to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me in the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
that &apos;s brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something deeply inside me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you do this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office officers .
in switching around , the courthouse of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the entire tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came into the court with a very concerned facial ruck , and he sat right behind me , almost to the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
and during the break , a police officer came in that disturbed that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is far out , but that it &apos;s increasing justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not completely designed as humans , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is connected to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i just want to tell you , those of you who see this as well , just say , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen a obvious wish in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are possibilities everywhere .
if you live in california , in this spring , there &apos;s a volksdecision about actually doing an effort to remove some of the money that otherwise flows into the politics of the punishment .
for example , here in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all lethal devil doesn &apos;t end with a arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t get to look at everything for you , and everyone knew that you had this bodily genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
that fact is often put into a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you tell someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country didn &apos;t really happen in the class of violence .
it was the misguided cruise against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your mistakes , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind the grid forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , for the theft , it &apos;s good , rather than having them force them to return things to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , you really made a string swing here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings up an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit fame .
speaker 2 : famine in somalia . three : pfefferspray of the police .
speaker 4 : malignant cartels . five : dangerous cruise ships .
speaker 6 : social decline . seven : 65 deaths .
speaker 8 : tsunamiwarning . 9 : cyber-attacks
different drugs war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second every day , our senses catch much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we &apos;re more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our risk detector .
it sorts and passes through all the information in the search for any suggestion of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand is very true . &quot;
now , with all of our digital devices , seven days a week , 24 hours a day , all of these negative messages , it &apos;s no wonder that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s no wonder that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- about all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century has accelerated through a series of forces , has become so strong that in the next three decades , we will be able to create a world of abundance .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we have no big problems -- climate crisis , biocrisis , water and energy problems -- we already have .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at anticipating problems in the very long run , but we &apos;re actually overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so that we can predict the development .
over the last 100 years , average life expectancy has more than doubled , the average income of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has decreased by a tenth .
and in addition , the food , electricity costs have decreased a lot of times .
steve pinker has shown us that we are living in a very peaceful time in human history .
and charles kenny said that literacy rates have gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these is technology , and these are growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes an information technology on the curve of moore &apos;s law makes great jumps , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , people call this or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , in war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
that &apos;s the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite her logarithmic process on the left , she &apos;s walking upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to all .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; what my friends at autodesk call infinite computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production to democratize on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at &quot; risk ? &quot;
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines that i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson is constraining human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how to use these to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create products and services that can positively affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little bit too much responsibility to bury them up to a fragile human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iiii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam for dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver brick , napoleon himself got gold brick .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam was given aluminum besteck .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and platin .
this is why the dome of the galaxy was made from aluminum monument .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the mass of the earth , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s associated with oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking about energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy collide every 88 minutes to the surface of the earth .
it dismantles and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations for success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , they &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar power dropped 50 percent last year .
this came out last month with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have water overload .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that is 70 percent covered in water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are ice , and we &apos;re fighting at 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called the slingshot , which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the home .
it can produce a thousand gallons of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola just agreed to launch a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries all over the planet .
this is technological innovation that is out there today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- it &apos;s the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just consider that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communications in abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are literally going to be dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what is expected for us in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams all over the world to connect all of these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test in coughs or your blood values .
and in order to win , the device needs to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the burden of disease and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rent or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health agency and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of surplus .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just under two billion people connected online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion internet users to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard before will join the global communications .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe returning to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the biggest economic impacts in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , never heard before ?
how about giving a voice to the oppressed wherever you are to pay attention and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring with us ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the reasoning of 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that , today , human pattern recognition is better at folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who &apos;s the best protein folder in the world , it wasn &apos;t a mit professor , it wasn &apos;t an caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant in the business department at a rehab clinic , and at night was the best protein doctor in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to solve the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would report really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that follow people and apply fatal magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and it &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time , so that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to make this happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the seasonal , and we &apos;re moving to the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns to statistics , and it uses a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to go into a statistic that i hope most of you have heard about before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player will beat three out of 10 beats .
that is to beat the ball out , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t get there in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what you call a 300ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what you call a 400ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow that doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you &apos;re living in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease vessels , and your doctor references that to a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 .
but you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average power of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday shelter , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we send each of them , including me , into the world , with the claim to be perfect .
no one ever makes a mistake , but no one is thinking about the details of how to do this .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
in high school , a fellow student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and that &apos;s what it was .
and i learned in my little roof shop at the sisters residence at toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it came to explaining the absolutely insane mobility of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and the runners of every muscle , every branch of any artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubuparalysis .
and i was collecting more and more knowledge all the time .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while until i met ms. drucker .
i was resistant to a teaching hospital here in toronto , as a woman , printer , to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was proven to be the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff cardiology council was looking at the emergency patient .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to give feedback to my top doctor .
i studied the woman printer , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made crushing sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crushing sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it fills this gradually , so the shorthand came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water tablets , so that she releases the fluid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she began to feel better .
in fact , sometimes he can feel really paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my superior doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the listener , and i did what i should have been , which would have been a call to my top doctor to explain it , so that he had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute extra information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was so acting , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the bottom of the glacier for 18 years , two periods of each nine years , deliberately selected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their bright mother , they &apos;re now spending metamorphorically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was poet throughout her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the village of virginia , she was out in the fields , and she said she was going to feel and hear a poem come across the landscape .
by sending them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , no good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was missing so much confidence that i asked the nurse who cared about the woman printer , &quot; do you believe it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to do well . &quot;
i remember it was like it was yesterday .
so i signed up the descendants and a hospital car and rescue assistants and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i lost the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department on my way .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there was another nurse saying , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but emergency care is particularly because we only see patients so volatile .
the three words are : remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse to do it .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular tone .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a 50 blood pressure , which is a dangerous shock state .
she hardly breathed , and she walked blue .
that would roll across the country on them .
the emergency staff moved all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure up .
they attached them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was shocked into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped that it would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to the story .
the other day , they listed her -- woman , printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would make the earth go under her feet to the quake .
it &apos;s said that the names of those who die never forget .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next few weeks , i went to the blueprints , and i learned for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though this one swells at wholesale , and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it , and my terrible discussion is , if you end up causing the bad conscience , and you swear you never make a mistake like that .
if you do review and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i talk about it is the one that makes you sick in your mind .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , he was very dear .
she knew that in such a moment she could only do one , and that was , in her words , running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the wounds and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely it was .
i started to feel better .
and then on a cloudy day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i might say , &quot; i can feel better again . &quot;
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection , and i never made a mistake that the voice could be devastated .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was all about the fact that she had to get fast enough to a piece of paper and a pencil , so she could catch it as it went through her , and hold it on the page .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service at the emergency station in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a full raw .
it was a lot of go , and i was in hurry .
he always pointed here .
i looked in the races , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and even as he walked out of the door , he pointed at his rake .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it would move on over land and , as she said , searching for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the ripe ? &quot;
it turned out that he had a streptococus infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the recovery , it &apos;s the upper respiratory path , and it causes the conclusion of the trajectory .
and fortunately , he did not die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , and i felt relieved , and i went to work till it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold twice .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff going on , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients a night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and i don &apos;t think there were any defects in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
i thought he had kidney stones .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidney , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague found a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i put fluids on to rehydrate it , and i asked my colleagues to also look at it .
and that &apos;s what he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they were doing surgery , and they were doing well .
both cases nailed me , ask me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my blocks have happened in the last five years .
alone , shame and without support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through it , and she grabs a pen just as she goes through it and then -- she said -- it was as if with her other hand , she grabbed it and she got it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can voice the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t find , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so they don &apos;t make the same ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about myself .
when did you hear the last time from someone who talked about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , they go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i was to go into a room full of colleagues and ask them to have their immediate support and tell them what i just told you , i would very likely not reach the end of the second story before it really got uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off somebody &apos;s wrong leg , believe me i had trouble looking in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a complete denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make errors and the ones that make no . the ones that constrain sleeping , and the ones that have no constraints , the ones that have bad results and the results that have good results .
she got the poem on his tail and she pulled it back into her body and took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we banned those who make errors out of medicine , we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sensation and journalism , i did a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for my first article for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we &apos;re working in a system where every day , when one in 10 medications is either a wrong or a wrong dose , where hospital infections are getting more and more and more often and more devastating or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of universal errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine decides the number at 100,000 .
both of these are strong understated , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as precisely as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and throughout that time , they &apos;re culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- keep the balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in free and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathology course for a patient with breast pain .
and then i take the same breast pain patient , and i sweat it , and i give it a little bit of alcoholic breath , and all of a sudden , the story is transformed with contempt .
i &apos;m not going to take the same thing .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of these are inevitable errors .
so if you take the system in the way that i &apos;ve been taught , and you put out all the flawed health professionals , there &apos;s no one left at the end .
and when i heard that , i thought that &apos;s kind of uncanny -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the padders about people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the head of the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about your ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show you with the microphone .
and then their pupils expand , they bumped in front of their head , then they look down and they swallow hard , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes that i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that they &apos;re able to do .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white for his humanity , accepts you , is not proud of making mistakes , but puts everything out of you so it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
and it shows others their mistakes , not to make sure that they are , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and it works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that is , people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is developing to make backups , which are easier to find errors , to find the people inevitable , and also to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for that , and that in particular for people like me who should make mistakes and be rewarded for the rewards of that .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i &apos;m regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from that to pass on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . in order to work , i have to stand up and sweat every day at the same time , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you may think he was hunting , but that &apos;s not true .
in fact , he gathered fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in great style .
but even in my masonry species , sometimes this thing would be stumbled .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos islands or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we still come to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is supposed to be a different concept , which is the alterable wingspan , which is clear .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess a lot of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon was surrounded by palms and by some mangroves .
there were bunk of about 20 centimeters , black-and-white mouths , an underkind of bunk .
the fisheries of these bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well off , and they earned a lot of good in ghana .
when i returned to that 27 years later , the fish had shrinked to half its size .
they grow to five centimeters .
they had been genetically expressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source of me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also fortunate to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my co-creation in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s , rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s , europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fishing promoted countries that have already started 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this very ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went up to it , and we made a whole southern chinese sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
now i know it was the bottom of the sea .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the debris piles , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came to deck and then was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition is very fast .
within a year , you run a survey and then you start with commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case -- a hard reason or soft coral is going to be a matchy .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were throwing them away because they were dead .
one time , we started a living one .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of drum is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to that without losing our minds , but to keep ourselves in the opposite of mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adjust our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
each generation looks at the images that they take at the beginning of their conscious life , as standard , and is going to derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but you don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a series of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits , and i got to interview him a magazine a few years ago .
and in the end , they just want to get the audacious remains .
that &apos;s our goal now , by the way .
we want to preserve things that have disappeared or things that are no longer the way they were .
now , you might think that the problem was to look at people who were certainly living in predatory societies , killing animals , and who had only become aware of a few generations of what they had done .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies .
so you don &apos;t lose any animals that are often occurring .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a great loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the large animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to rape on the hangs of the amazingly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they &apos;ve learned in abstract is confirmed in astonishment . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embodied modern artist who tried to dominate and deal with these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him .
and over time , there &apos;s very little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept that ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence that they were doing in an earlier form is not the way they would like to show the evidence .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdote that the report of a captain soundso , who was watching great fish coming in this area , can &apos;t be used , or fishermen scientists don &apos;t usually be used , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in the educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the tremendous role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area and can benefit from the insight that enables them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think art and the movie may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the bills you may remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by this -- except for the pocahoney story , why were they so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s called something that &apos;s kind of gone missing .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , so he turns &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at a high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which is often , in inspiration , is very difficult for him . and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t grab them .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf with the example of this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , they could find the creator of this thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do this , and how much that would constrain the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , then this page has printed a bright yellow blob on every page , in a pattern that clearly leaves the page on you and your printer .
this is what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the existing online problems today .
let &apos;s look at what really happens in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from jaw in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like -- i &apos;m going to lose this thing and i &apos;m going to be pursued by this song over time .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjordan sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they have acquired it illegal by , for example , using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency was happy two months ago , the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and that account was 14.9 million u.s. dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and what i &apos;m saying today is that we are becoming victims of an online crime as a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes are going to play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest group of attacks we can see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through your audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main influenza groups : criminals doing it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are resistant to it , but the last group are nations , governments running the attacks .
that &apos;s where we have cases , like diginotar .
it illustrates what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or was it .
last fall , it had to register insolvence , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group the question of whether he made it possible for the diginotar hack people to die .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in the aftermath of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , a certificate requires , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all , or many of us , use gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly distributed in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign services like gmail , because they know that they can trust more than local providers , and they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can do it if you &apos;re in a foreign .
certification agency hacks and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that have happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgencies in april 2011 plotted the headquarters of egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , there was a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , the notes of a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs with which they -- in very large terms -- could catch any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools that can happen against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , what we found was called the state strajans , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to deploy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re almost certainly tapped into your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , sorry , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ?
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state brijan to pick up their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , to stop their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t really matter to me , because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , but every right we &apos;re leaving is given forever .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , any government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measures that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in the position of building things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically bonding stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones have been produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , the bell labs announced the next revolution , the next building block .
the transistor was a small unit of plastic that would bring us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s one key difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squawks someone else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them all together wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cables .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green together , and you can build very quickly larger cycles .
you put a blue one on a green one , and you can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blind .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they &apos;ve made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of programming , wiring or solving , littlebits allow them to program with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn it on this button , and it makes the momentum faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole work process has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a commodity rock .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with them .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in your life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
like , for example , a nightlight works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience whatsoever in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them to some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a bumblebee of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design templates and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start to invent it .
thank you .
but the process and the hard climbing that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out of it , where he was causing nothing but anger and left him where he came from , in a way , and he realized that there was no inherent , agonizing thing .
there could be an actual , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed the way i worked , and it saved me a little bit .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of a typewriter , pray , love , and i fell into one of these graves of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are responsible for the younger brothers for the destruction of the world .
i started thinking , i should just put the project in .
but then i remembered tom talking to the free sky , and i tried .
so i took a look at the manuscript , and i spoke my comment towards an empty corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you &apos;ve got to check up here and hold your portion of the deal .
okay . but , if you don &apos;t do that -- you know what , then the hell with it .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i would like to give you a protocol that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the desert of north africa , people have gathered people to the moon with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours -- until the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became over-world .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like the time was standing still and the dancer was walking through a kind of pform . he did nothing but he ever did before -- 1,000 nights before . but it all came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be human .
it was illuminated from the inside and illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like that happened , people knew what it was . they called it his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , like , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquito of south spain conquered this practice , the language changed over the centuries of galaxy , allah , allah , allah , allah , galaxy , olé , olé , that you still hear in kidney fighting and flamenco dancing .
every time we think about innate and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old scaffold of the noble wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical , like that , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer wearing a fifth of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe it will never go back to those heights .
and maybe someone will never call god &apos;s name again when he turns , but what will he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of pure if you didn &apos;t believe that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you from the beginning .
if you just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- of an unbelievable source of a reader of your life passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so , native babies are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think for sure in the last few months , while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , very expected successor of my trigger &apos;s success .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about it is : don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius , which is sideways you , for a moment , decides to show a throat of miracles through your effort , it will be a no-brainer .
and if not , still dance your dance .
and , you know , it &apos;s all about you .
i believe that , and i feel like we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for it in the malaria swamps of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they &apos;ve still , through time and ritual , shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth itself can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
in spite of all this , just for you , you have the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which , for nearly three million years , had shrinked the size of the lower 48 states , by 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t press very enough the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps are the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what has happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it &apos;s growing on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it &apos;s shrinking in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because global warming is looking at the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there &apos;s huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s stalled , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we cross that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane , methane itself from the water .
professor katey walter university in alaska has traveled to another flat lake of work in the last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re doing well . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat heat is warm from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind , who will be or determine their destiny , will become a completely different human being , and have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be restrained .
this is an annual diving river .
but volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through the land ice sheet , it goes into the sea here .
these rivers are rapidly accelerating .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice sheet .
and the west antarctica , which has appeared over a few underwater islands , is particularly very strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a bunch of heritage , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the indians , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has increased .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this armor all over the world leads to a dramatic increase in fires .
and the disasters all over the world have been increasing in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day in the oceans .
look closely at the area of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both sides of the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest polluters , along with china .
and the proposal was to build a lot of other coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been argued in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be dead .
there is a political argument in our country .
and the coal dustries and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last calendary year promoting clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
to go around christmas , i went home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you may have seen it in the news .
this is in our entire country the second largest waste flow of america .
this happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry at christmas was this one .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in shell and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
this made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the locations of hukuk and the curved heaven beak and the cannibalic spirits that are at the north of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers remain in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we &apos;ve set it up to the top line , spend a significant amount of money trying to get an advertising act to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and also smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , the burning of coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here changes everything .
look at it closely , this is the current , clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
provide america with 100 percent clean electricity over the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution big enough to solve our problems .
take care of america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that make our world down .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
provide america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , and it &apos;s fast .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid when you were playing with building blocks .
while they realized how to reach out and reach out and grab the blocks and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is intimately connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the way we interact with real objects -- along with my professional adviser patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we could use computers that , instead of a mouse cursor , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and organize it as we want ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer and evolved siftables .
in short , a sift is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved with your hand , you can perceive each other , you can capture your movements , and you have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , it &apos;s physical , which is why you can move them like building blocks just by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and as these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other and see the enemies of our approach with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;ll start with some simple examples .
this sift is designed for the video relief , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it goes backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so if i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what interests them .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and you also feel your movement and your tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we designed three sift ables as color pots , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shoot back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we &apos;re going to give people the opportunity to try and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i make with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every sift , randomly enough , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanoma , as you sniff this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed , and you have a new letter combination and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the bottom right .
it turns out that he just wanted to stack the sift .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
sniffing this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , paralyzed by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickshot .
we wanted to develop a learning tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the pen from the table that shows this character .
here he is going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the prisoners and putting them next to each other , he can let the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not created a distortion of reality , it &apos;s the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with the open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time for today to show is a musical sequencer for live , which we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the sift ables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat them by just holding a ton sift to a sequence sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you put it together with a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed , with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic ethirea with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 300s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t put those tryptamins in as hallucinating , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re no longer there to experience a hallucination .
and then even more over-ordered effects , like speed and volume , that you apply to the entire sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start by eating the leadership voice in two sequencing seats and organizing it in a row , expanding it and adding a little bit more of the voice .
now i add a barrel to it .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums about this .
and now i connect the filter with the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by flipping the pace one way or another .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter with the bass , for a little bit more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it walks .
and so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; they &apos;re going to expand or shortcut them .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken properly , because they , of course , through a human intestine enzyme called monoamine oxidase , are denatured .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by going to the loud sift on the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human computer interfaces that fit better to how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you part of this new design world and some of the ways that we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we are on the verge of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media , bringing information into our world , which is our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy to be there .
yeah , so , what should biohacking be ?
they can only be interfered with some other chemicals that the mao denaturize .
now , i have to take a little bit of this , and that &apos;s biohacking just dealing with modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been doing biohacking for a few years now , and that &apos;s what i started to do , because i just wanted to know more , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in my study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i kind of wanted to get closer to matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general now , which is generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is , now it &apos;s extremely important and much , much more important in the future .
there are such controversial things as these whole genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there are craig venter now in the u.s. , trying to make biofuel , which is gas from algae .
and then there are things that have come completely in the world , which most people don &apos;t know , like washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline that &apos;s in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the way that you need to power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , out of the interest in this technology , i went on and on .
now , this is why hacking ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then in the media , it &apos;s always going to be like this , yes , the hackers are going to break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
this is kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started like , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem is , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be a access problem , it can be a problem , it can be a problem , it can be a problem , it can be a problem , it can be a problem , it can be a question , and how can you do it better , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just gotten big with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , there &apos;s a whole bastler scene that has been done with electronics circuits doing all kinds of things .
and now it &apos;s towards biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because the d.a code is an abstract code , which is , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adversive plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and so you can hack it , like that , and i found this incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to go a lot deeper into it .
that actually only took two thousand pieces of shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but that has now members or active people all over the world .
that has a more artistic orientation , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and in collaboration with scientists to engage with these technologies and to ask questions and to do it creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a more attractive way to have such a playful approach with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , which is d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s. , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to stop and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business on the way , and they &apos;re also being asked , yes , applied questions .
and based on these networks that have done the whole popular , there has been a scene like this that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit uniformity where everybody can come to .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with it , they &apos;ve set up a lab , and look at what you can do when these lab protocols look at it .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for a long time , these other two networks .
they &apos;re also in such an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics tinkering , and they &apos;re combining it in a fairly delicate way .
a group of ankara , which i met a little while ago , they have a group of students that wanted to stop the public , what they &apos;re learning in college , and they &apos;ve made little actions on the street , and they &apos;re trying to explain to people what &apos;s d.a .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen in the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and also , really , really focused on the society , and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you into it ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology now , you kind of need material .
you need , of course , biological materials , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a laboratory .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a laboratory is that these are sort of deprived machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. students and so on .
and our approach was just to say , o.k , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s not necessary , in fact , because each coffee machine actually has more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really what it is .
and s o with this premise with this premise , for example , brian degger was trying to put together a minimum abor in england , then took a steam pressure cup , a heating plate and , yes , that &apos;s what soup brothers did , and then grew bacteria , works .
so anybody who &apos;s been toy for a soup that he &apos;s left for too long has been done .
i then tried this in my lab at home , and then i bought myself so second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did a little analysis on d.n.a , and i tried a father &apos;s test , so that &apos;s how / d.a fingerprinting , to do a home again .
this shouldn &apos;t be a joke , actually , but .
you see down here in the picture , you &apos;re the lab , you &apos;re in leadership , so there &apos;s a kind of an admitted garage with all kinds of labels that the university has done , a group in paris , which is a group that has set up what &apos;s set up , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s pretty interesting , and i want to do a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , you see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s where people are doing it alone , to large , larger organizations that are already doing it more in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but always the approach is that it &apos;s supposed to be easy and accessible .
the first project that we &apos;ve done as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , o.k , we &apos;re now here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website , the founder &apos;s website , and said , o.k , we have to actually meet , we have to actually meet , and then we &apos;ve organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and just after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share with ?
and what are our values , and what are our targets , our basis ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
it was quite intuitive , so everyone just expressed their wishes , his and what moves him , then .
there came , in my opinion , a very good code .
and we &apos;ve got that one not compatible , but that &apos;s , i think , pretty well , it &apos;s been done , people are quite convinced of it .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it didn &apos;t somehow get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a large distance in the forest , which appears to be a kind for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
now , what kind of projects are we doing ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland was that we wanted to build what we call an optical trap or an optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then in this focus , well , it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam basically .
this really works , this is done in academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get that right , and then we took a webcam that screwed up , turned the lens off , then you have a microscope that increases about four hundred times .
you see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart , and we took the burning out the laser , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
this is another project that came out of the french group in paris , and that worked , and that &apos;s pretty cool .
and he &apos;s got this kind of , you know , a brain wave measurement device , like e.e.g or something like that , so he &apos;s been doing neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they do their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you &apos;d understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , he walked that .
and then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fancy project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymerase-chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating , meaning a , fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the scene of the crime , they go , they collect any hair samples , and then they do this technique , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like that .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re quite expensive to do this , that you buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyspace , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve been sitting there with two builders , and they &apos;re saying , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve just got it out of open source , which is free hardware , electronics , this device is going to assemble , and now they &apos;re actually going to bring this to market , and they &apos;re now the cheapest vendors of these devices in the world .
i think , kind of , six hundred dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a context where it &apos;s becoming more accessible .
so i think it &apos;s a very promised hack .
one project that i started recently was a gene gun to build .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you invite d.n.a to gold particles and gold particles into these air pressure pistols , and then i shot them on onions , and then i made them light up with it .
so the device that you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my kind of prototype , which looked pretty much like this , on a branch , put the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure , and that was the pressure too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juice pender and i plucked it into it .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in full moon and they sing to one in a different pitch .
a juice pender , if you make the full power with water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s so 40 to six bar .
and then you can accelerate the particles very enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about fifteen thousand euros up or something like that , which is like 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so this is also , at the moment , the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can engage in it .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , it &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society as an informed citizen , you need access to knowledge and technology .
and you also have to do it and understand in order to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a harvard ph.d. , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
and that then fires , under the headwords , open knowledge and citizen science .
so , as citizens , you &apos;re being put into the position of being able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who at least officially admitted themselves on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
this is already a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know some of you who didn &apos;t get involved .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , these places are put in there .
