you know , one of the great wizards in traveling , and one of the joys in ethnography is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , and who still feels their past in the wind , touch it on the rain , taste it in the bitter leaves of plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important to the well-being of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem with this is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of innate people , look at them as orginian and colorful , but somehow constrained them to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , is progressing .
and this is at the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth thought , it just started .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-10 hundred .
and this has now become a giant network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that are represented all over the world .
and we hope , of course , that we &apos;ll be similar to spreading , and then similarly connected , so that people can be more involved .
and i would invite you to do it every time and try something .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you have enough energy in there , you get there .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era in which we were against and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted , so the problem is not change .
how do we actually work to people ?
this is a question that really moves me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media and make them a very satisfying experience .
because i believe that the interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , so paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , and we can reproduce them just by interactive media .
and it &apos;s very amazing , because you actually believe that this wedding technology that you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , with our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i once wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve gotten at the pre-industrial times .
and one of the things about these archaic models is that we have basically natural relationship with virtuality .
that basically sounds unusual .
all cultures have been involved over and over again in the dance with new opportunities for life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very visual since this archaic model , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that the interactive media is by definition non-linear , which includes the sense of linearity , and what of course tells us is that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about virtuality , which is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove this to you .
how many doors does the house that you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer it spontaneously to me , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s happening right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , to show virtual reality in our v.r. lab , where we can actually do it all the time .
and this ability to virtualize the virtual reality , the people in the pre-industrial times needed bitter , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory took place .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being on sioux when they were bow and arrow tasks when the americans stopped being americans when they were horse and horse chariot .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they were just passed on .
and so it &apos;s also so rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , human beings were also media producers and medium themselves .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but i &apos;ll come back to that in a minute .
the basic tool of information training has been to stories all the time .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . ugly face of rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guardians , were lined up to keep knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong on stories .
the author of the book the story telling animal , jonathan gottschall , we &apos;re still connecting a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories until the age of grandchildren .
now we think our love of stories depends on the fact that , as a child , we &apos;ve sat on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
this goes far further back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s really amazing about it is that we &apos;ve been anchoring by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example from the nootka indian north american tribe .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to make food .
and they did this with something called lead-land maps .
you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in this , of the australian peoples .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-land maps , they used songlines like this , or traumps .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be depicted by songs .
where the language was subordinated by the subordinated rang .
that is , you navigated about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and of course that allowed you to defragment these songs and put them in a different way , and move back to the left , right , and also back to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from above to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what happened ?
what &apos;s happening is that this is the sort of genius machine age .
we &apos;ve moved to something called the avian age before .
what happened is the machine age , and what happens is the book , and it happened , and it &apos;s the photolitography .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
the book and the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have a bit of virtual virtualization of god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , so not the television , the internet , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media have fossilized our memories and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people , is generally convicted , but the ethnic , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally and often celebrated as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little bit of an intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what is it about our thinking and our memories ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they have been more and more overstated in the course of the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
so instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we don &apos;t produce ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language that &apos;s abstract .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures anymore , not in pictures , but we &apos;re coding it to you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibets if you haven &apos;t experienced it on the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the story telling .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested to the storytelling as an information tool .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now described the so-called cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , which bring us these opportunities to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , inspiration and intuitions that have been defined by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague of 6,000 miles from chengdu , west china , across southeast tibet to lhasa , and not until i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear : 6,000 holy monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered in the cultural revolution by the caders .
so if you look at google glass , for example , it &apos;s a concept that recombines the virtual world with the real world , which means our affinity to virtualization , which is to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is to be addressed again .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving into not existing , virtual worlds , very much like the model of the holodeck .
and other examples are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can be intelligent to a human .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to take virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , bringing a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and janitz müller .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a moment , so you can talk to the two about the project in the break .
and i brought this project back as an example of how to address this archaic , cognitive model .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as a follower of the panel lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which is , of course , extremely opposed to the story telling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to have some people in front of some console console , or that they &apos;re playing with some console in their hand .
anyway , they do that in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s designed to think that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so i &apos;m rediscovering the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that much better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and the point is that i explore a city by looking at where positive or negative has been tweeted .
that meant that he was immediately killed during the chinese invasion .
and so , from the city , i get a very different view , a very different impression , which is i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to wrap this up , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vow age , and they &apos;ve kind of distorted us in the machine age that can be returned with the so-called cyber age , and that we can actually , in this way , get back to our roots , technological , new products , not in the future , but actually get back to us .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a spoken sack , and i &apos;m going to talk to you .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but so far , i &apos;m just doing it a little bit curious .
yes , children are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so i &apos;m also involved , of course , in the subject of curiosity , and how curiosity also changes our thinking , and why do we lose curiosity , and why do we lose curiosity , and we need to reboot it , and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual being as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often smashed into such an n research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half a year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do the whole shape begin to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up there , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , more user-friendly , and that &apos;s where you have to look , which is actually natural for us humans , what is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , which is the next generation in the human condition , where computers are in the relationship of the human computer are dealing with how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe have to look at it again .
why does this happen ?
so if we look at the development of our society , in short , we move from the third to the fourth generation of society , or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that is , they found themselves by talking a common language , they could communicate with each other , they moved to the same cave , or they moved to other areas , they formed cities , or they formed villages , and they kind of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very alive .
he was smuggled into prison at the age of two to hide under her rockcipal , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn it sucessive and proportionate , of course .
that was then dissolved by ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started to manifest the living language in the form of writing , which is what fluid and life is , i &apos;m going to start and throw it in stone , and with that , i &apos;m also manipulating it .
and depending on how i throw it , and when i throw it , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a kind of living coverage .
but then sukessive moved this script as a primary medium , got in .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today primarily .
this is just the printed script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just as a monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , they want to talk afterwards , and of course that &apos;s totally fatal .
and now we get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , this is a generational shift , it &apos;s only every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re doing this .
this is completely confusing , of course , because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook , etc . , etc .
the sister who gave this brave act was brought to an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what &apos;s banging on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse flesh , and there &apos;s no more beef or other phenomena , which is , i just want to take this off , and i want to do it .
and these two worlds are breaking up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , it &apos;s a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
but now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the issue of ecology is a global issue .
not , if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means , from the local village , a global village has actually become a global village with the same principles , possible , possible , intuitively , but also total transparency .
as you knew at the time in the village , who has what happens to whom and when , today , this is what happens to us through this expansion of ourselves through these mobile devices at the global level .
be it that we know globally accumulating and accumulating faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped out of accidents on a armband of maos , and for this transmission , she had to go into a heavy job camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
now , in front of the background , i &apos;ve been looking at this , what does it mean , what is it for us , what is it that we may have lost , but what is it for us instinctively , so what makes the difference ?
because often people come , they can &apos;t use it in a way that anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not only does it change that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s going to be better .
and when is , of course , a little intuitive , and how can i take as a creator to make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they can be intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and easy to use .
you get busy , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s where you start and look and say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside the inner self .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does naturally mean , intuitively and how does our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
suffering tibets can be intolerable , but the relieving spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in the detail , if i want to make something usable or intuitive , what does it mean in the core ?
and you can see that you have a our seven senses , most of us think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven recognized , and it &apos;s certainly coming to the next , eighth sense in the near future , and also as an extension of ourselves .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand , in the core , in the human being , when information becomes information , when will information , from data , and from information , so that i know how to make things possible , or of course , by hand .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
we see this here , when i &apos;m making things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper is , or i can sort of design them intuitively by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice . do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonies or a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so , a lot more natural , in a pot , but i sort of see right where salt and pepper is in there .
and if i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll be thinking about where &apos;s in the right .
and on the left , just to intuitively reach , and then i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in there , the salt is just giving .
but also our perception of ourselves , how does it fake us ?
for example , this perception in context .
the right-hand circle looks bigger than the small one , although that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , before she died , said that her greatest fear is that as we move towards a thread , formless , generic view of the world , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced to an innate way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there have ever been other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is already starting to correlate or associate some similarity .
and if i put another halboval in , we suddenly don &apos;t see one more unit , which is circle , circle and , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is called gestalt law , or gestalt psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the creators , the most of the time in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape law of the nearby , gestalt law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , they forget again .
but this is a crucially important component , if you want to make things very intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting about vision .
sounds very banal first , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that perhaps our species has existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes on the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see from the back to the front .
that is , they projulate an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , for example , circle .
that is , we &apos;re just projulating our vision before we see it , bringing it back into the back of our seaweed machine to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got so much cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projulated what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , that comes back .
and then it &apos;s going to go forward , because the back doesn &apos;t trust it , and it says , well , look back and see if that &apos;s what you see , that &apos;s what you want to see .
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and what kind of millisecond areas are going on .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment threw us to the cult of the seeds , replacing the poetry of the shaman by the prose of the priesthood and hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
it &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody &apos;s trying to see something from this pattern .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see something in particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , you see it all the time .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that means that i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now , that you don &apos;t recognize any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning you in a very short period of time , to see this dog in this devastating picture .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projiezing forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes that are going on in this , yes , it &apos;s not really gray , but it &apos;s going on here in this brute mass .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very good wait times , where i &apos;m going to do somebody with three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he has to process that first as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly wait , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does it take for five , 20 milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time when you fall in love .
that means , look , if you know that now , look at who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take any election for what can happen .
and sixteen milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most of the perceptions we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they &apos;ll answer 10,000 different voices .
and as we also see things , what we &apos;re paying attention to , and how we sort of reassure ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it in a way .
of course , the designers don &apos;t just deal with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but of course , primarily with the subject of human objectiveness .
so how does a human being deal with certain things ?
there &apos;s the practical functions , which is so formalaesthetic aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there &apos;s some drafting functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does anyone spend so much on a little bit of a day , where hardly anything is in it , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re involved in , of course , as a creator .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which , of course , is usability .
usability always means how can i achieve a certain goal , or how can a user , in a certain context of use , be able to achieve an efficient , efficient and satisfied goal .
that &apos;s how it says the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens need to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible user-friendly ?
can i use that directly , or i need a handbook , or i need a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is .
that i &apos;m just making this different shape and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software that we just saw , in part , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is not intuitive or not usable to the name b , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone areas , even though it &apos;s far more intuitive than classical software .
now , intuitive usability has not only been a fundamental economic factor since apple , basic success factor , if i want to use technology technology to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , we &apos;re on average of our goal five times faster .
you have to imagine , if you do something of the classic sofware , it takes five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , it takes only an hour .
here &apos;s a picture i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably allowed to go home four hours more , but your employer , or someone &apos;s going to think that they &apos;re going to be engaged in the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to achieve certain things as well .
so if we go back to the software area , the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one , which has been working with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer use .
so not more zeros and ones or kryptic codes , but a metaphor .
it made this much more user-friendly , but it &apos;s also much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so that &apos;s where , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape the behavior than the appearance .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , the appearance of success , the usability is becoming an application .
the canadian government has not always done very well with the inuit , and for the 50th years in the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move into settlements .
and if i go one more step into these natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m a voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and no longer by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point where are things going to be more intuitive ?
if you get more intuitive , and then i have to back up my little friend here and look , what does that mean , from the point of view of cognition , when is something really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always intuitive for us humans , if i have to think very little about it .
so it seems that he doesn &apos;t like to think , but it &apos;s very easy to think .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a shape .
that is , i can put an intuitive human action model on a software and make the software much more usable .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of us human beings , and now i &apos;ve already guessed it ?
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this is what each of us and osit is is an acronym , and it stands for orientative , selective , informed , transformed .
that &apos;s what each of you is doing all the time , but it &apos;s making it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already being exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s interculturally , so it works around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself becomes about 50 to 70-odd thousand times of us depending on activity , so in the sleep , it &apos;s found that it &apos;s then less often punished than in the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , sort of like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher degree of user kindness than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer this now , for example , where i orient as a supervision , select as a choice , inform in the trap , it &apos;s big to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction , i can throw it somewhere or send it to somebody and buy it and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family that was scared for his life took all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten pies .
overview : now , i kind of interact with the object , can zoom out , zoom in again .
i &apos;m going to get the whole overview , and now i can filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate , for example .
and all of a sudden , i have an interface , which is significantly more intuitive and much more natural .
because that i can reach things like the piece , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than if i can make these things available to hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , in a way , these things .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d also like to conclude , a and again , giving the clues , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first thing , when you &apos;re a kid , when you &apos;re a baby , is that you &apos;re taking care of what kind of divorce you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play more or less in the pottery and move , the more , you know , your curiosity , of course , is being woven .
and the curiosity is not learning .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold ; they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here are curious are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically this whole environmental debate , world entertainment , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point about this .
and it &apos;s phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , you add plus-to-scale , you give off about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the tracks of their sleeps were originally made of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take phosphorus and give it away .
it &apos;s amazing that we &apos;re looking at something that would actually be self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have two years of phosphorus , and already , through phosphorus mining , we have a lot more uranium in the environment than we use in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little bit less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the falling storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way i would say , shake your child , beat it three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little bit less destruction .
if we think from the weighs to the bathtub , our entire earth will be a cemetery sooner or later .
that &apos;s why thinking about the weighs to the weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , and he let his pants down from seaweed and defected into his hand , and when the feces started freezing , he formed them into the shape of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re growing corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or at the square meter .
that means we lose in the ground about five thousand times more than we are reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem first .
and it &apos;s all packaging or content .
in openbach , for example , there are 20 percent of the garbage in the garbage now .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of them in the forewind phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed stores on the sides of the fecal knife , and when it was completely frozen , he was amazing a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
let me tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement in the pigs over the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s evidence , right ?
he contains the dog , and he improvised a dish , he took the dog &apos;s skeleton , and he improvised a sleeve , he relaxed another dog , and he escaped over the ice sheets with the fiber knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you tell the people to exist , if you say that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;re going to be refining and hostile .
and so someone like al gore says , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one could termite , in so far as though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that is , the ants weigh a lot more than we do .
that &apos;s how you can do something from nothing .
and because they work a lot harder physically than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they correspond to their weight , in energy consumption , a little bit of 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are from what we really wanted to do and what we could do , and how sad we are , that we &apos;re actually on earth , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , by 20 , you want to be here climate-neutral , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
fortunately not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
have you ever heard of some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most striking bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really have to go back into circles .
and so we &apos;re too many .
just about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit in april of 1999 the full control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-farming , no bioland , no natural system of progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it &apos;s certainly meaningful to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere has been highly discarded , this has happened at the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can reclaim our nutrients .
we &apos;re doing agriculture in brazil where we &apos;re reclaiming the nutrients .
we can directly get nutrients back to agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste directly from it .
in china , a night pot is still called honey pots , so to say , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has always taken over , but never given back to the farmers .
so the cities had to grow more and more because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they don &apos;t make the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve done civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , when they &apos;re invited to eat in china , they &apos;re expected to stay there until they &apos;re searching for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to reclaim the nutrients .
the really nice thing is , if you do that , you make agriculture , you make biogas , you know , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , you can produce a farmer about a thousand dollars , and you can wait for the plant to grow chickens and pigs and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas is going back over ninety percent .
an amazing example of how a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recovery with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be less bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that is , you know , the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred and fifty in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter , and then the facility would be ruined over the years .
it &apos;s not happening .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , we don &apos;t have to be able to be bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do anything about it , write down , in germany , the best way to do it is to do all the sewage facilities in frfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the fraud a little bit .
because the frankfurter facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going to work out .
we &apos;ve spent over three years in holland now .
the dutch government has explained that they &apos;re going to be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
but we need that overall .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70-percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil reserves .
and the oil will be replaced by other energy carriers .
but you &apos;re not going to replace the phosphorus .
it &apos;s not about making the existing one a little less bad , it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s to ask what the right thing to do .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s really effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
one woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
there .
it &apos;s not exactly right in science , because we don &apos;t know how much it &apos;s being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better and take it off and lose it in the incineration facility all the materials for cycles , but to first ask , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill of open tastes and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world , and our website is getting 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh , yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , yes ?
in every place you throw away , from , yes , you create life again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw the wrong things away , you have a garbage problem .
in the way we think of north .
there &apos;s a disadvantaged footprint .
156 nations send our television channel .
when you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash the soil away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how are you doing with your wife ?
what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , &quot; sorry , yes ? &quot;
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , forcing , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy how people in the high bow are spilling out of the car like that , in italy .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of rectangle behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , please .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are just before extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the apocalyptic scenario in the area of biodiversity -- is almost not the same as what we know as optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re doing a series of trips to the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they will be blinded by the one that we &apos;ve seen , and hopefully , one after the other , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserves to exist in a variety of ways , that we can find a way of life in a truly multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s degrading everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants , so that , by throwing away , they contribute to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , we &apos;re not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not all to be composable , of course .
a television or a washing machine , they &apos;re just using it , they &apos;re not using it .
just the things that are swallowing , like the shoe , like the brakes , like the car ports , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are only used go to technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company to make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yes ?
so if i invite you to eat and say , this is free from chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we realize what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of an adoption of exactly a year ago , which is seadragon . and it &apos;s an environment where you can either go local or remove with vast amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all in it that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes to put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian pile , and the rubber can go in biological circles , right ?
all of them are composable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for obesity , for nike , for hennes and mauritz , and the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they &apos;re helping , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they have changed the board twice .
and i &apos;m not sure they &apos;re really going to be here .
so , help me a little bit .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can get seamlessly and continuously , turn , rearrange in any way .
but it goes .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now that if they break , they can break in biological circles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , which is actually made to go back into the cycle .
again , in any store , you can get things back .
if you come to this , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the wind again ?
if it &apos;s the garbage right now .
all around the world , these winds are close .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s on the deponia , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , that you can just go back to cellulosic base , you can plant with a baby in israel or in tunisia hundreds of 50 trees .
yes ?
even if you take these winds , you break them down , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the very beginning .
so we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a 300 megapix area .
it &apos;s sort of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything .
i started an institute to do that .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there , and they can all be engaged .
there &apos;s an extra club , a cradle to cradle club , where everyone can join .
so not save , lose , avoid , reduce , not a guilt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i write that , as an interpreter , i &apos;m a translator , as a translator , in english , i understand .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the word for words into a different language , but also understand the deeper meaning of words and wortzusda harbor to make it a meaningful translation , everyone who has to do with foreign languages .
already from german , translation to english , can require more knowledge , because once you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very alien to layered what we do to musicians with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i just wrote the written notes .
you think that the composer has written into the notes exactly everything he &apos;s imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , although they seem to be very , very penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the smell of flowers is not to smell , to acknowledge the degree of the green , not to hear the saddles of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpret has to translate these unprecedented features of the emergency language into another , namely audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to share with you what i otherwise use musical translation , which is interpreting , translating it into a verbal language .
so basically a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally relevant to me to translate the translation of translation .
so the music , to me , works like the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read and to press the buttons that are corresponding on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the point of the letters is that if you can see the language .
so you need to have the learning process of music at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a degree in whether you learn it for the use of the dogs , just passively understands it , or you can speak actively , until the musical mother language .
the work of interpreting starts kind of like a theater director .
after you &apos;ve chosen to play a piece first , because you &apos;re excited about it , first of all , you &apos;re looking for backgrounds of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you compare comparisons .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , and not a picture , we can do something like this , to really show that this is a real representation of the text and not a picture .
the reasons for writing it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all this .
you think in that time , by looking at contemporary images , for example , or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpreter , you already have a rich knowledge of the composer that you play more and more , and it makes you easier and easier to think in and feel in it .
the composer becomes more and more the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more to my personal cause to play it .
now , because the notes are all other than an accurate record of the composer &apos;s cause , but only a scaffold , i &apos;m now turning this scaffold to reconcile it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator for that is the extinction of language .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i &apos;m going to explain what these sounds might mean .
now for me and for the composer then and what you might mean for him today .
every tone , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own now , personal scholar .
it has to be true for me here and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i can experience new .
how to reexperience a happy new day , although always with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , as i do the same piece over and over again and over again .
i &apos;ve gotten older again a day that is changing seasons , my pulse is slowing down at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i perceive the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this impacts me and all of this also affects my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s also wonderful when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , fair conversation .
you bring a new idea into it , and at the same time it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things are happening that we haven &apos;t tried , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have then experienced the way the music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play more like that moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i am in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore i &apos;m going to have a lot more color chances on my palette of music than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to have thrown out some color pots , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
i have a nice example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano course for music students at my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and long-standing professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emergent when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was already on his classes at my school .
i was 17 at the time when i went back to one of his courses and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late piece .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballade was for me .
this is such a contract part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over his 60s .
well , you have dreams with 17 , but no significant memories .
i &apos;m playing this piece every few years , and it &apos;s always changed for me , even though no one note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because over and over again , i read something new .
one example from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , with different light .
he translated the seeroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-ray of a piece is comparable to this .
now , i &apos;m older than chopin , at the age of 30 , when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of a multi-size medium .
he &apos;s only lived for 30 years .
and it &apos;s important for me to look in the notes over and over again , even though i mean , to be able to memorize them .
to keep twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection to him .
most of all , if he &apos;s died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said , you know , it takes about as long as it is for spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we &apos;ve also done something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
when all the fingers are in time and right in the same way that they &apos;re moving in the notes , they come out the sounds that sound like music together .
when the puppy-free happens , the student gets the next hard piece .
interpretation is barely spoken in the beginning class .
well , there &apos;s presto on the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and loud , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know here .
but even if you do these attacks , it still remains just a little bit technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very basic .
that to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s what singing is .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing because the parents didn &apos;t pretend to do it by themselves .
it &apos;s like learning to speak .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to make it sound about another possibility , which is to make it sound .
people who have never singed have never felt instantaneously with their own body , as it is to form a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and our feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the permanent coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if it gets boring .
no longer needs to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is made when you &apos;re constantly sucked with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to find out if they can &apos;t do it , or learn how to use these little muscles that make the vocal chords .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been told that they &apos;re intractable .
and i &apos;m asking , how competent was this diagnosis ?
have you got a second or a third opinion , as they say today beautifully ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you don &apos;t want to do with it .
but what i would regret , though , is that music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can even reverse them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a seamless candidate .
but don &apos;t tell you , i don &apos;t understand the classical music .
i can &apos;t say whether it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to create these constraints to the place that &apos;s available on the screen .
that &apos;s where i answer , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think it says i don &apos;t know if it tastes me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t give up food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to give up on classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and tell you whether it tastes you or not .
whether or not the music is too sweet to you .
tell me what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want to have a little bit more spices in there , or they even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience to listen to it actively ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you were born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art you never look at has no power to work .
the food that &apos;s been fed by a chef or a chef , needs to be eaten and not just looked at or swapped out recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where adults are actively making music , or at least hear active music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play it in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red one now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from what it was before .
that was the very first start of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , or even three hundred years ago ?
now the instruments have progressed .
there was no piano in the world at all , bachs as an instrument .
it was just not invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sound of the modern piano today .
i can make the sound of the stream today on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
also , beethoven , you know , he heard more than he had been deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything an orchestra has rejected from then as an unplayable .
so the composers rely on us to reinvent the pieces .
so you &apos;re going to hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area .
and also what you would think of in your mind today .
or what i imagine today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what neid is ?
have you ever been jealous ?
and how did that feel ?
shattered .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v , w piesel , and i &apos;m wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s.a .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have that big car ?
that &apos;s the first year , half of his value is losing .
and in fact , you &apos;re working much less than i am .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i immediately come to mind , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say , the word of justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as neid just disappear .
you can also try that with words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism or get something that &apos;s unconsciously familiar with you .
and it &apos;s overwhelmed at the top of nasa &apos;s outrageous picture .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie as you may have heard it when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then he stones , so he loses the sight .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to have a life lie to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check or get them to fall .
they need time .
let &apos;s get something else out now .
from that time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained , the portrait would not look like her .
picasso says , just wait .
it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is , and how much time it takes you to experience something that artists can share very well with us .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist shares something to you , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see , if she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is sharing with you in such a portrait something that you &apos;re only familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then that unpleasant feeling disappears , it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet . you can check it .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifetimes .
and not only in art , but also in the volcano , in the mythology , it appears in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility you have from this true exhibition , the mirror can &apos;t lie , can &apos;t lie from this true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to understand from politically correctness over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that holds us deception without which we can &apos;t live .
we have , not only in art , in folk poetry , but also in science , great lies like this .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the origin of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey , and , yes , there was at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband , and she said , &quot; that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that lifespan .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descent of the highest creatures , not of such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that &apos;s still there , a stone comparable to a stone , and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is by noah snavely , a university student at washington university , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is dissolving , and how the traces that it leaves behind , that lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to bring you to another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she talked about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research . a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healthier at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being uses the word in a moral judgment , we should try to replace it by the word .
do that , and then you get the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
they feel that &apos;s the actual truth behind the origin .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in fire extinguishers .
he &apos;s interested in firemaking .
but there are no clubs that we can look around us , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the overall of the vocabulary or a series of grammatoes .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he was signing up .
and overwhelmingly , you also don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put a brick somewhere and be happy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the risks that others are creating when they &apos;re on fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that at the heart of the bub , it knew that it was actually related to the fire , but that it can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps right away without them being able to do something about it , and the things that they know look very different , designed to sound much better for them and others .
that &apos;s just how those words come out that we use over and over again in the language of political correct speech .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we talk about this , the social relations are very delicate .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
what logic that deception , that self-deception , the willingness , is a different reality than the ones that we actually know in the unconscious world that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to present to you two , maybe three , as well .
the first example is predicting what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is this kind of spiritual , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not gavage of material , material nature .
and if you have people in front of you who are persuasive , that you have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that you &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think that &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework about you , not out of matter , they &apos;re just flesh and blood , some stone kind of , to the earth , transitional , delicate , unimportant , dead .
but the spatial order of images is actually important here .
and from that soul , you think that it &apos;s kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , in the latin , the luftherness .
and then , if that windmill is pouring over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that &apos;s supposed to be present to our lives .
and if you have this premise in mind , then you understand the logic with which we have this fortune to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three sentences you still know from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer visions algorithms have captured these images together so that they can convey to the real space in which these images were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see here elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
because to lie like this , you can just get this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences occur .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted it in particular here .
a third sentence that appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who has no soul , they &apos;re dead , they can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
here &apos;s the logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any claims about reality .
i can say , the rabbit is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the rabbit is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the rabbit is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can claim everything .
but the key is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so if sound says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our devastating consciousness immediately feels like you can make something out of it .
it &apos;s a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and predicted .
because , in fact , we would have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses , two sentences are logically correct , and attached a third that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our lifespan .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , which is photosynth-technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue these things to happen in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that fills the newspapers over and over again .
this is another philosophical issue , another permanent burning from philosophy , present .
that has to do with us going back to the fourteen century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact one in the middle between two equilibrium hairs , it hungs .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how natural things are presented .
same big forces with opposing currency signs dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if you immediately make the haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing to do that .
he automatically walks to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that pulls you right away , you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re also here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer says there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who was only done in the computer with images of flickr . just type in notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on . each of these orange kegel represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now we can rebuild the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf is singer right , he doesn &apos;t have any willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can read in the daily newspaper , almost every day , is in this third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no willingness , can &apos;t be drawn to responsibility for his actions and claims , and therefore it &apos;s unsustainable .
again , you have it again .
you &apos;d have to prove , in fact , that there &apos;s no such thing as willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of anticipation is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and most importantly , if you want to make people happy , practice this courage to lie .
practice this , for example , when you meet a human being that you can tell , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is called prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all spatially related to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience one that , of course , is a prediction that you can &apos;t prove .
and they already have a problem .
because while they &apos;re busy making sure that they can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he &apos;s led them to a drill where he doesn &apos;t even hold himself .
because , in fact , this human being is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s only interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have that opportunity to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember them in that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good day .
i asked myself , i asked lilly if i could mention it .
she &apos;s one of the performers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk and give my idea to prize .
i have to say , you know , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at first .
and i might like to introduce my island project to you .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of all , lots of ideas .
i &apos;m probably , you know , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad oil image , because i &apos;ve started studying machine construction in carlers , technical high school , now i think , kit .
and then i got into berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t exist in carllage .
you know , i never believed that i was ultimately going to work at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
it was called all the kfa , which was also the kfa jewish .
they &apos;re now called project carriers .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but a doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which is kind of a hundred watts out of the square meter , that was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the fall of the wall , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t that way in the years .
it was just that there was self-administered alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in cross mountain in the multiyard , where you thought the evil was bad .
it was called the terrorism site , but it was called the furious tronics and the wind and the solar energy , and i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what was said today , i &apos;m very touched because many , many beautiful expressions were there that i also lived through .
i worked for 11 years in the collective , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one said no , the vetoprinzip was a totally crumbling one , and i &apos;ve been doubling for 10 years , whether i really wasted my great engineering study , maybe a little bit of a wasteful thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always been talking to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window in your child .
it &apos;s looking at incisiveness .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into that phase , and that &apos;s where i got a picture of where i was asking for 10 years , a thousand d marks were still back then , basic wage , collectively , whether that &apos;s really the way it &apos;s supposed to be great .
and i then got it to six and a half , and then with friends , i became a co-founder of the company called solon , which then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off cells .
a huge success story , but we also have the problem again , of course , of course , of a growing company , and we then have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and dedicate to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , and we think , it &apos;s equally crazy again , it starts with people saying , what &apos;s the quatter , it &apos;s all not going to do , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce to you now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : everything is in the process , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them all flipped together in this environment .
and we &apos;ve just started to ask a relatively simple story , which is , where could you use a memory of sensory today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a five-10 percent renewables today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you build more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adolescence .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people on this island have .
the question was simple , calculate that was two-thousand2006 , started the first contacts with the island , but just compute .
how big would it be to be a battery so that you can get an island like this on 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seven percent renewable ?
and yeah , i &apos;ll go on a slide again .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electricity are being built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of you are covered by faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is wiped out with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
it &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
and there are always three of these things going on , and two of them are always waiting .
yeah , that &apos;s what a guy &apos;s seeing down there , is the burden .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar plant , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system , which can only eat in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the diesel is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to use the load so that they can map the larger percentage .
somewhere here are a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off this .
that means , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can sort of take over the entire web .
of course , you can only be manned here in some way .
no one in the world has done that .
there &apos;s a little style in it , so you can also use your rasizer in the car with a little bit of a change judge .
people always ask me , what do you actually do in adlershyard ?
you can do that .
but if you want to put together several of these conversations , and they want to build a net , it &apos;s going to be extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to come to seventh to ninety percent renewable , and then there &apos;s still this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you &apos;re doing from batteries .
this is definitely going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know it or sh , it will be .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was really recorded .
you have to go to more of a season memory and winter summer and not just tag night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stinky electric battery .
how far do you get there ?
and then did a lot of simulations .
and they &apos;ve simulated wind and sun and the load , and they &apos;ve come to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that , over the conventional system that takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , it takes about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour to get out of it .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price increases five percent per year .
and then we started negotiating with insulers .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would all have to be done ?
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social scientists .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the picture again .
the brown is sort of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system has a price increase , because we &apos;re still 20 percent of this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which meant the power utility company on the island , that &apos;s what we think is great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical proportions of the island at scale one to three very accurately .
that means we &apos;ve been looking for the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the entire collective memory of how , visually , the earth looks -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and was then licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it has a megawatt of performance , and it can do that for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we sort of got out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , to actually simulate the full dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall it looks like this , there &apos;s the one in the back , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s the whole thing that we &apos;re simulating the net .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means that the soul of a certain culture can access the material world .
all these photographs are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
this is what we see again , again , the diesel , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we did , since two-thousandth , the hall was finished , until now , two-thousandth of a day , basically everything that was here between the single system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between battery and the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate , of course , to the battery , you also have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing is , on this island , you can basically take everything away from problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our percentage of renewables .
so this whole discussion of how it &apos;s going to move back and forth right now , energy turn , how it &apos;s going to go , we have , for example , five to 30 percent accuracy energy , so we &apos;re going to tirelate to the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electrical mobility on the island , to ask around , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without storage .
they get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through n smart grid , you can build the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , you can listen to the percentage , but you will never be able to completely dismiss the memory .
and that &apos;s the message . that &apos;s the way it is .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made of loud rotating masses of big power plants , where the wave is always the same around europe .
we look into this web , we see the 50s hertz , and if it becomes ninety-four comma nine hertz , we start to make some valves , then we go back in a little bit of merh steam , then we get back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible work .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
consider this the sequel to the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn this big battery out two milliseconds .
and you can see there &apos;s enormous speed possibilities there .
and the message is , we need to get rid of these rotating masses , if we &apos;re sort of 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply , the power station is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal power plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gasturbines , because that &apos;s not possible .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by putting electrochemical stores on the grid .
and fortunately , there &apos;s a lot of studies to do that now .
and this is something that &apos;s growing by the complexity that people use it with , and that &apos;s growing the benefit of the user with the application .
and for that purpose , people always come and look at our trial , sort of , our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take a piece of future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
it &apos;s not , it &apos;s waxy , it &apos;s child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , we &apos;ve never calculated .
we now have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany .
that &apos;s a role model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years we will have the same capacity of electrochemical storage around the world .
it &apos;s very simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the beautiful thing is that i &apos;ve been experiencing , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are being signed with metadata , which has embedded another person .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , also to climb 10 megawatt-battery onto the german net .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so , from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and only from that defense to yes , to that idea , a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewables , that &apos;s like an autarke system .
so far , in discussions , these insulators are always trying to get autark , they have their own little web , they have nothing to do with our connection .
the question is , quite simply , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy , that are drilled out somewhere in the world and put to you , you &apos;re an island .
then they only use what &apos;s on the sun and the wind where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , the premium cola talk , is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and have a vision .
when someone &apos;s been struggling and complaining all of these holy people and communicating who they are , my photo is being taken by the notre dam cathedral suddenly with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of cross-model social experience using other people .
and you really have to stay quite countless , but i think it &apos;s going to be .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist the los angeles times , went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin who had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos; article on this , a book that was filmed again , was filmed with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied at juilliary conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically ended by his paranoid schizophrenia early .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos;s book , or to watch the film , so that not only do you understand the magnificent connectedness that came out of these two men , but also how the music helped make that connection , and how it was the instrument , when that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concney hall .
he had just heard a demo of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine me .
he spoke in a very hotter and social sound about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never be able to do it in the baseball world series , and all of this because of the tangible passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct of all of these are the immense rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not been kept just by overwhelming or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
we came to talk about music , and a couple of days later , i got an email that said nathaniel was interested in limb education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he goes away in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture source of his own mind .
and in the same way that a rice stage was nathaniel when we started our first lesson at the walt disney hall , and he had this miserable flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not because of it , but i was afraid that i could lose it , that it could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about scale and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic limb .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that in nathanite &apos;s eyes there was a complete change going on .
it was as if it was under the influence of an invisible drug , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniel &apos;s manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin , and he started to play some clips of violin concert after hearing , and then he asked me to play them at the end : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that he had not only an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i otherwise only know about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , became a loving , educated , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music is changing us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing states .
do i understand them right ? your software allows you to be connected at a certain point in time , within the next few years , all of the images that are used by someone in the world together basically ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
this is why we make music : so that we can make something that &apos;s inside of us , deep inside us , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that printing reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united us .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the relieving power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent , and he was paying attention .
and i &apos;m going to play with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concney hall or skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve been imperative of stolen the cellist .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discovering .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tastier , good consistency , durable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do an event on the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem for our chefs was , how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forest bare .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tunas , the healing butte , the salmon , heavy fish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so i think or evil aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments about it . fisheries are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , let &apos;s take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has 15 to one food processing .
that is , it takes 15 pounds of wild fish to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don &apos;t , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the ocean that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed from our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of ourselves .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put it up .
and that evening , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don &apos;t .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what , for example , are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he doesn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to demand .
well , i was telephones with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me a proper answer , until i finally got a phone with the senior biologist .
how if you take a web search for pictures , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what the image is .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don &apos;t , &quot; i said , &quot; what , for example , are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , resting , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture connects them to all of their images ?
i loved this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , you know , i swear to god who &apos;s been smashing fish for chicken after this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way in which the better you know your fish , the more you love your fish .
i first eaten it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it sort of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost simmune white color .
then the scale of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold it twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , it didn &apos;t cook the fish , and it &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish raised in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally replaced the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , sea , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like that .
they &apos;re staring out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see are flooded channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts of charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? we were there fighting through the wetlands , and i &apos;m keuch and sweat , and i have mud up to my knees , and miguel keeps a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve heard before , and i &apos;m going to try to make a few connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he highlights a rare glider .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more of the talk of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , which was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call official dogma .
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the evening .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
well , he &apos;s continuing to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s totally self-assembling .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
the farm ever belongs to the farm that your animals don &apos;t feed ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at that moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a shift in the street .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look at it , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , literally a pinker carpet as far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your belly , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you haul your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , there were 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest , and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-flourished bird population not the last one you want to have on a fish lift ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the brush of the belly , the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public good of our citizens , it &apos;s particularly to maximize the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos from the beginning shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the ground is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and every night they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the striped white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of a journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm , and then fly it 240 kilometers back at night ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an irreducible assumption for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do that because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like the fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it .
it &apos;s this bittering , coiled taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried her in this restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t look like fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and nobody has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something gets into the body .
it &apos;s evolved throughout evolution to look for uncleaners . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any inpurity . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success in their predators &apos; success .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any inpurity , it drives enormous , because the water that flows through that farm comes from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this is the water clean , as it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that feeds its animals , not just a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators , but a farm that is literally a water supply plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because this love story , however romantic , is also explicit .
you might say it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekstores . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are they going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not the total production .
well , i don &apos;t like that question , because it has determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how awful can that be ? &quot;
that was the movement . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a business that is involved , a business that quickly ecological capital that enables this production to happen .
it &apos;s not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our grain chamber is threatened today , not because of degrading , but because of degrading resources .
not through the latest mouths and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chains , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deeply embedded in our water supply that it would not come to mind .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in it , and it &apos;s never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
this is what goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring , rather than reusing , businesses that are extensively growing , rather than just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to make you think about one thing today , it &apos;s that the sum of the data that we consume is greater than the sum of its parts , and instead of thinking about information overlap , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns are emerging , and we recognize trends that would have otherwise not been visible .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical mortality diagram by age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle , the people here are the most active , and they &apos;re the most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible for us .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we move on and we move on to age , let &apos;s say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are even the main thing that people should worry about .
and who &apos;s continuing to see that this is particularly true in men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover pictures of every single sport illustrated ever printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
they can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not being taught to young children anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . no big .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m clicking here , and i &apos;m going to show you all the expenses that lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with the topic of biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take a look .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , targeted , broader , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look or you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now i want to take this idea a little bit further , about what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipedias and reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol for the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipedias .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately we get a sense of the issues that are most popular on wikipedia .
now i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediatoriums that are most covered in time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipediaseite .
that &apos;s just to recognize when you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at a particular one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there &apos;s 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essions that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 is right for you in the store .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that most of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some of them , some of them , less , come from the economy , here &apos;s my boss , and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and take a look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zooming technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump right to a specific section .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in into my trajectory in a particular time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this point .
and i can , in a way , recover everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and if i take a step back and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past , here , looking for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here for bing , or here for live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the site and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes it bigger than the sum of the database .
right now , in this world , we think data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information overload .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of always going from one to the other , we could start to be able to go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and see patterns that would have otherwise remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then this current data trap , maybe a new source of information becomes meaningful .
and then they go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge of it .
and if we know , we might even be able to take wisdom out of it .
so i stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a wooden portion of science fiction .
in my school , i was driving the bus to school , one hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my mind into other worlds , and in a narrative way satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i was streaming through the forests , wandering , collecting &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and beetles and ponds , bringing everything home and looking at the microscope .
i was totally enthusiastic , you know .
it was always about trying to understand the world and explore the limits of the possible .
and my love for science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor this oversaw with computer-generated movies nor the whole imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . if we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my reaction was to draw and draw from alien , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind textbook , painting around .
creativity had to sort of get out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
certainly , i would never reach an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all the things that i had always imagined when i read these books .
so , when i was 15 , i decided to get diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let it go .
i annoyed my father until he finally found out a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been diminished , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in diving boats .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat ocean , is as rich in fascinating life as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know any boundaries , as opposed to our own clear human imagination .
to this day , i feel deeply awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was filming .
that seemed to be the best way to tell my inner stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i drew comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that was fit together .
of course , the stories i chose from the science-fiction area were &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
with &quot; abyss , &quot; i could connect my love for the underwater world and diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every telephone that you wanted as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we went to computer generated animation , cg , back .
what came out was the first computer-generated software surface-figure ever to see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in any money , and he was just in his production costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that was out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
and together with ilm , we created the guy out of liquid metal , and the success was very much about how this effect was going to happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the same effect in the audience was the same , but we had a little bit more money in the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from those two experiences , a whole new world had reached , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature designer at that time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to jump the phase of analogous processes with optical printers , etc . , and start right with digital production .
so we did that , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that we were in the creaturedesign and design -- which we had actually founded the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to be the measurements in visual effects and computer-generated effects in all new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made by cg , and the main characters should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was quite beautiful , and the people in my company told me that we were not going to be able to do that yet .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as a &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; which became a love film of epic dimensions , a passionate film .
but i actually wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , to be one of the last of your people talking to your language , not having a way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
and the result of that was that the phone had never been broken .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced you , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
that &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good news for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but this goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bull-eye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep sea divers , a space mission , were similar .
well , they were also highly technical and needed extensive planning .
you go into this capsule , and then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s as if i was in a science fiction movie .
it &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was actually obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , the part that has to do with curiosity and science -- it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite range of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before , and that science had found no words for when we saw it .
so that got me right , and i wanted more .
and so i then made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood and become a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we dived to the bismarck , and we explored it with robotics .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiber glass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck , and you didn &apos;t have any means to do that , so we developed the technology that we needed .
well , i &apos;m sitting there on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are quite similar to these brakes , and i know that the band was playing there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically within the shipping wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjan vu i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i was bow around a corner , i always knew what was going to appear in the light cone of the vehicle , because i was walking through the movie set for months , when we were making the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the blueprints of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize that telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars , so that you can put your consciousness in the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore something or do other things , in all kinds of post-humane future scenarios that i can think of as a science-fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started really learning to estimate what we saw down there , like these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are sort of alien , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 player- , nasa hair trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was , again , the science fiction effect of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space , and who have to do with nasa , and they sit in the nasa expertise council , and they plan real space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the biomedical protocol , and they go through it , and then they go to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it turned out that i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we made documentary films , but we actually did science , actually , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business yet , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i &apos;ve learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think now , a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out ? &quot;
these silly films don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . no trace .
everybody thinks i &apos;d gone away between titanic and avatar , and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment you can do . you do it for the space of discovery , and because of the strange connection that emerges when a small group of people form a team .
because we &apos;ve done all this with just 10 to 12 people who &apos;ve been working uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were in the sea for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the kind of awe you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , when you &apos;re working at sea , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other one . that &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have gone through something together and know that they can never explain it to anybody .
there &apos;s a connection , a respect for each other .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve yourself in the opposite of the respect .
it really changed the dynamic .
so i stood there with a little team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
it changed my way of making films completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d actually done really well on these oceans and transported them to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a kind of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed in outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons have we learned ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and your team &apos;s awe is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
come to me young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a council on how i can do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
get other people for you . don &apos;t do it for yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself . take risks for you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees trust .
no important endeavor , which demanded innovation , was ever done without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a bit surprising , because my full-time job at the foundation is all about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion to make a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important to these people , actually more important to anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years ; we &apos;re going to rain too much or too little ; things are going to change the way they don &apos;t have their fragile environment .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to rest .
so , a climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important for you .
the fact is that if you could only reduce the price from one thing , poverty reduction would be far the most effective energy .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution was driving the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in electricity cycle , and so we have refrigerators , climate conditioners , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation of electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this terrible destiny actually happens to someone on earth somewhere , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an older person dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they sum up the stolen co2 , which leads to the increase in temperature , and that increase in temperature has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes and therefore collapse whole systems .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
can &apos;t half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to increase .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck , which has to be under a 30-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze that underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to make changes that go down to zero .
it &apos;s been up constant .
only different economic changes have affected it at all , and we need to go from rapid increases to zero reduction and to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to bring to zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and carbon that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor and think about how we get it to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , they go to the doctor , and the doctor tells them we could make a , or we could make b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 percent to 15 percent , but we &apos;re now seeing a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that that number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to deny and use less , but on average , that number is going to increase every year , and so on average , more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street light .
now , in efficiency , in e , in energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of all sorts of successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in building houses , there are many services , and their energy supply is decreasing some individual services by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizer production , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even a factor six .
but for the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get that to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , if i use the term miracle , i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to get to a certain date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , that there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , i came up with this .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my contribution to the environment this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;ve been assured that they don &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they don &apos;t get much .
we need solutions , either one or several , that have an incredible scale and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may be doing a modern contribution , and if they &apos;re doing better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but that &apos;s not it . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys from the chimneys , get pressure , and then get somewhere and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that are doing this at 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent is going to be very difficult . and getting an agreement for the storage of co2 is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the payload time question .
who will make sure ?
who can guarantee something , which literally many billion times larger than any kind of garbage you can imagine from nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next : nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high . the question for sure that you really feel that nothing can go wrong despite human engagement , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great , they don &apos;t need any fuel -- they have some drawbacks .
one is the energy density that these technologies create dramatically lower than power plants .
and if you say , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , talking about lots of square kilometers , thousands of times more space than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day long , it doesn &apos;t seem to be blowing every day , and it doesn &apos;t seem to be blowing the wind all the time .
so if you depend on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prize challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you have to deal with the risk of energy from where else comes from .
and there &apos;s the warehouse problem .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all sorts of batteries that are being made : the ones that are made for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i &apos;ve compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be 100 better by a factor of 100 than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go , what is the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds of them .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
in many , you &apos;ll say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many people here in the ted group who are already engaged there .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , that has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , maybe surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we were all talking one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonese .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy , &quot; which sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who doesn &apos;t know anything and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear domain ; modular , liquid .
development stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , they &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn this 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head down , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a &quot; walking wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy them .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the inflated uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you filter ocean water cheap and easy , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet to live .
you know , there &apos;s a lot of challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many of them talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean .
so , to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reorder its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to getting it to the rest .
that &apos;s great .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 testimony ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reductions , the less we emitte , the less the carbon dioxide is going to be , and therefore the temperature is going to be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even slightly less important , as the other ones that represent the speed of innovation for this breakthrough .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there &apos;s a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there &apos;s a lot that has to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish for us to invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through energy with no co2 , that wish i would take .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term people will be terrible , between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich country , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice , as this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i going to do ?
we need to use it for more research .
when countries get together in places like coppenhages , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market travel , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you !
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the great scientists that we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it &apos;s reasonable , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor to find another billion , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first is done , when it &apos;s as promised , it &apos;s all right , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
in order to understand this , it means deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this used uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . today , you have to refill the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and get things out . it &apos;s not good .
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that you buried it without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor , which is itself a solution to the waste .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- take it and put it in the next reactor and burn it .
and we start by taking the garbage that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry reactors in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is that what we fill in our fillings , and it &apos;s dramatically reduced the garbage volume during this process .
but while you &apos;ve been talking to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet figured out a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting open rules for everything called the nuclear . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and likelihood of really creating something like this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that has shown us the environmental models that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything is going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , that could be easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds , which , just as if their approaches work , can provide funding for their pilots .
and it would be best if it could make multiple , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
given the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and that they got married as quickly as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different but the beautiful thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as it is , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mainly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , it plays the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what then ?
do we have to do emergency efforts to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re just in front of a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance , because it might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you think about the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that available , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientists : do you have one or two sentences for persuading you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative impacts that have to do with the clouds that change things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have only later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be maybe i . &quot;
nowadays , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should worry us .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it emitting co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the stock market of lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other targets suffer , the poverty reduction , the fighting malaria and so on , there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there &apos;s better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
it should not suffer other things .
you get too much money , and here &apos;s where reasonable people can disagree , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to finance that , and for me , most wasting is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough , you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to be more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new pocket is now , &quot; why is the research not going to be discussed ? &quot;
he &apos;s still being associated with the skepticism camp because of his earlier stories , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a mindset that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope your wish is true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the biggest possible free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about 1meters of tape , about 1meters of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work together very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share with you some of them .
usually most people start to orient themselves to the task .
they &apos;re talking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re running around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization . they sketch and they put spaghetti out .
they &apos;re investing a lot of their time in the assembly of the growing structure .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow and they put it very gently on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; ! admire your work .
but then , almost always , what happens is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to fade and fall down .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they &apos;re asking themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst of them are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , they &apos;re really droughts .
and of course , there are teams that have much more ta-da , and the best of them are fresh alumni alumni .
and that &apos;s quite amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but they also produce the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how is that ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students have been trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i get married later ? should i have children , or should i have career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the opportunity to repair bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with each trial , the kids get immediate feedback , and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most of them is about five inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
1m is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and secure self-enhancing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos are a little bit above average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that happen ?
because they have special skills of processing accompanion .
they guide the process , they understand it .
and that team that regulates and will pay attention to the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions , whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m giving you and not getting a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination leads to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
i tried something interesting now .
i thought , let &apos;s bring the poker deployment to it .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize in software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competition has a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important to answer questions .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of prototyping .
so from the same , bad team became one under the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams make cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- to the randolph hotel .
the challenge offers a shared experience , a shared language , or basic attitudes , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this so simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world , how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world records .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connection sport .
it requires that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , where the wireless works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before cars , or twitter , or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that you &apos;re kind of drawn to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventure .
it &apos;s because opportunities on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that we &apos;ve ever had on the planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re doing : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine in the beginning of my death row better .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have only threatened one generation ago , hardly yet .
we can look at our kids playing football , and we have our cell phone on the one hip , and our blackberry on the other hip , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphere , roteln , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method is to try things out , see if it works , it changes , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s damaging .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to really devastate this world .
drinking water , arable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we will go away .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re watching our child mutilating a football game , we &apos;re also asking ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a miracle thinking .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as we do now .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the verge of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds and 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven these things more deeply , to more fronts than we are now .
people are covering themselves in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; guilt , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for the new yorker , a little article .
and i was amazed to confront resistance , in resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were going to be in a certain way , rather than a random way , a handle on nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be very different from your child &apos;s experience of football game than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we submit , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics , who made me crazy , were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a matter of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it twenty .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with little cues of leadership , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we have trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call some names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , demand evidence , demand evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say this for the reason that we are now in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully never seen it again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the massage , mumps , and roteln vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were conducted to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter because we believe in anecdotes , we believe in what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government worker who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do that .
so i want to say there were some choices , but not everything was a matter of choice .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophe .
catastrophic , because of this fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinations for masses are falling .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody have masses here ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 per hour .
but because it didn &apos;t happen here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and that &apos;s something we need to learn , which is very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no excruciating , child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey across the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what actually has been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
it can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , except for paul walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public audience , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
you take them away , you reverse the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening .
we have masers in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , kids will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commiliator of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little too shrimp . &quot;
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have a child &apos;s paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe this morning , somebody in lagos got on an airplane , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles , and right now they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and he rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to harbor ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidancy that helps you jump .
i know they did it because half of americans do it every day .
all these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it paralyzes instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazingly cold and soulful to ourselves that can afford it .
so we walk away from that , and where do we go ?
we run into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what do you care ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options that you can choose , people are very difficult to decide at all .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer quacksalver who wants to treat his patients with caffe-entry procedures .
if you go on that path , where belief and magic are replacing evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone smoke and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s being pasted worse than any other disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most mindless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponents of genetic modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study of investments in volunteer age prevention .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every grain of rice , every branch of petersily , every rose , has been changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melon .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more accurate , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and this stuff can help millions of people extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically modified food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to own seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , dropped the participation by two percent .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work because we &apos;re afraid is a real dead gas , and it keeps millions of people from blooming .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we do right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need it , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
they &apos;re offering 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were just offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that &apos;s half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it doesn &apos;t have nutrients , it doesn &apos;t have any protein , and scientists are putting all that in there .
and then people could eat that , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be beautiful . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say is : why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
now , there are some of us who sort of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for greater food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do things like we &apos;re guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s happening here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and go into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes tomorrow .
anyway . i certainly want that .
it &apos;s in the present right now , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but if we go into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;ll be happy to do that .
i know we can do it , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while . it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it as i am , &quot; a deception that becomes something real , if somebody believes in it hard enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient only believes enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not only to say that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions is so hard that they miss big investment offers of their employers .
a deception becomes real because someone perceives it that way .
now , in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s at least since the 1950s in every magic book for children .
i learned it from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my fault like this .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
through the non-participation , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to press my wrist right here .
this is how you can see that at no time anything is moving , and as long as i &apos;m pressing here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully if everything goes well , the knife will be held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually sitting so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in the room know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing disappears or emerges in my sleeve , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i &apos;m holding my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s someone sitting there who didn &apos;t have childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it processes information , doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is all about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger moves back again .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you make a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more measurably effective .
and that , although none of them are any pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternal , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out it &apos;s not all .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
one colored capsule , which is yellow at the end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as the capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that makes us more powerful .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from that study that you have to reach the needle if you want to go to the thing .
this is an 18-inch long hat needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp . and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of the choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
i &apos;m now going to put this needle into my skin and push it through until it &apos;s on the other side .
if you get evil -- if you fall in favor of easy -- i showed this to some friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad fast , you &apos;re going to look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part here in the back .
you can see it in a second , but you can also see away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right where my meat starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little einstein .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
it &apos;s about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself , just to have a conversation for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and the people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
take this child from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically they came up with the milky river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is due to the great selection of different salatdressing , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is that visual alternative that makes you regret the decision , and that regret seems negative to the happiness that you had from your decision , even if it was a good decision .
people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my meat , and i can turn that around .
sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back or the people who see this on video later , will say , &quot; well , it looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , it would -- look , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret at all , that &apos;s disappointing to the choice they make .
but i think , in this framework here and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll be happy . thank you very much .
everybody &apos;s talking about happiness these days .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up after about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mostly going to be about these cognitive traps .
secondly , what economists call oppertune costs .
it &apos;s true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these fall is a resistance to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could constrain it , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things , depending on what we compare it .
and then he added in , really quite emotionally , which has ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of wonderful music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past , but it &apos;s basically just the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is attacking -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt now when i touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel in the last time ? &quot;
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s just to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you &apos;re excluding , that makes you less satisfied with the alternatives you &apos;ve chosen .
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and confusing them is part of the misery of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we &apos;re not just telling stories when we make ourselves stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful today , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report every 60 seconds about their pain .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who of them has suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain , patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than it was for b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the perspective of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the patient &apos;s gut reflection by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you have done that the patient &apos;s experience is worse off , and you have made sure that the memory itself of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a a a a better story about his experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hampton .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
which is what enables a story to be a turnaround , major moments of time and ending .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living itself lives its life continuously .
it has moments of experience , one after the other .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological presence is true for about three seconds , which means there &apos;s about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there &apos;s about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , they kind of get the impression that they should count that what happened during those moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we used it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is time to deal with them .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the memory of itself , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there &apos;s no new memories to be added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory of self from a living self , and time has very little influence on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , then the one who chooses the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon that &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
we actually don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as an experience .
we think about our future as a foreseen memories .
and basically you can think of this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory of self , and you can think of the memory itself as one that sort of draws the living self through experiences that the living itself doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we make vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , that means we make vacation on the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we eat from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the color blue and green , because the sky scene is equal to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;d ever had , and i think quite often in relation to how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably , from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why are we giving memories so much weight over the course of the weight we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know that at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everyone in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide that conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think about memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we have with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two types of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is this living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or delighted the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to mash the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m one of a lot of researchers on well-being who have long massed the study of happiness in this very way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been realized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and about their experiences , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he has missed the ability to have a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has ordered their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their own living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of the happiness itself .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there &apos;s other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertuna costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we chose is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement of well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you won &apos;t get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier when they live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who are moving to california in hoping to get happier .
well , your living self is not going to get happier .
and the more options there are for choice , the more attractive features of that choice are considered in the cost of opperforming .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were telephone a few weeks ago , they were mentioning to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup survey .
is this something you can participate in , because you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy , the poorer they get .
and we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i &apos;ve rarely seen flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t give you any experience happiness , but that lack of money certainly gets you miserable , and we can measure that miserable very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
well , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the entire american effort is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything upside down , everything we believe , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , would the country take a fund like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
the recognition is going to be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are in the process of recognizing that they should think of happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to study life rating , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different from how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about this now , and maybe about doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
right now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one of the things that he does is he always decides who to do one thing , decide not to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on the planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time it took for 21 billion hours a week to play .
this may seem a little bit anxious , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait by photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage proposition called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have many attractive properties , and it will be what they do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he set up a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , maybe you &apos;ll get some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , some fear , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so overwhelmingly positive that they didn &apos;t know it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get there , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually able to do this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solving people around the world , when we take the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of all the widrities on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? yeah ? ok .
that &apos;s me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i was studying why we are better in play than we are in real life .
this is a problem that a lot of players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good as playing in reality .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , although that &apos;s part of it .
we reach more in games . i mean , well , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this hit me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i believe that many of us are turning into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful , to try to solve the problem as long as it takes , to try it again after the fail .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to look at as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think you couldn &apos;t just do everything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft , which provide the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories so possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , if you go into one of these online games , especially in world of warcraft , there &apos;s a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a world mission , and they &apos;re immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their ability , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and rotate . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are tons of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that if you have a finger snippet , you have a staff ready .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of one species , and they bought them , and they were poorly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they carried them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel ok .
you &apos;ve heard of &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have + 1 talking and + 1 crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time that we prefer to spend our entire time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
so far , all the world of warcrafers together have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so , i went to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have a few jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we &apos;re currently spending playing , it just makes sense when you look at the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using all this time to play , we actually change what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , cardiac beings .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young human being of today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online play to the 21st year .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours are the exact amount of time they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the end of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education path where young people learn exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying &quot; .
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of the 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a random subject to the 21st year , we will master it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is a complete generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly is it that players are mastered ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have , kind of , never had any human potential available before .
so many people now in the world who spend at least one hour a day playing with online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at &quot; something . &quot;
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to wash buttons or nuts ? stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started to think about what it is that these games make us master .
here &apos;s the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , imagine this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a barrier , together with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and that it &apos;s always worth trying , and that &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of poet social nets .
do you want to have jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we people like more after playing with them , even when they &apos;ve defeated us miserably .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody &apos;s spending time with us , that the rules are being held , that we have the same goal , and we stay to the end of the game .
so the interplay allows the growth of ties , trust and interplay .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraftsmen players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we &apos;re playing , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we &apos;re relaxing or not doing anything .
we know that as human beings , we are optimally functioning when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
would you like to cut down far , herey , blah blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to be part of the awesome missions of planetary scale .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve assembled more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than about any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , the strange thing about these big houses that are spoken because of the mischehen six or seven languages , but it &apos;s that you never hear anyone learn a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness not less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online play environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelmingly .
so he says , this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can make more powerful social bonds in games than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best appropriate jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years ago .
there are these ancient cubes , made of sheep . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , there was sheep .
and these were sort of the first toys that people developed .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you might know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
herodotus , games , cubicle games , in the kingdom of lydics , were invented during a famine .
i had it better . all this choice allowed me to have it better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydics decided to be a crazy idea .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and on one day , you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surrounded with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then , the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re using games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get out of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
herodotus , after 18 years , didn &apos;t get the famine better , so the king decided to do one last cubicle .
they divided the kingdom in two half .
they were playing a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went looking for a new home , and they left just as many people as there were food to survive , and they looked for the rest of a region where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so recently , scientists came to the idea that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing , by escaping themselves into games for 18 years , and then having this incentive and learning so much about playing with each other that they &apos;ve saved the entire civilization .
so , we can .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to search for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should be talking about the fact that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we &apos;ve solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems of the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve been doing in the last few years at the institute for the future .
the reason i felt worse was because i had all these available possibilities , my expectations for what makes up a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , which is how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empowering people to get this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i designed to try and make people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were only in a way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been doing it since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a changing experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you get to say , &quot; we &apos;re out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure to go on .
find out how they were going to survive . most of our players have kept the game in the game .
so for the next world-class game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game superstruct at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the calculation of a supercomputer that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global mortality system , of course .
when they came in 100 species , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we &apos;ve created almost like a jerry bruckheimer film .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-stranding , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3th , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you close the game , from the world bank , you get the award of &quot; social change , &quot; graduating in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic about this . we have &quot; level up &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge interconnectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people around the world , especially in developing areas , who benefit from together to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make close social networks , urgency optimism and desire for epic significance .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing great games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an italian wired article .
i &apos;ve always been in the writing of my synonymous dictionary , but i &apos;ve done the work of texting , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never been in my life , which means the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;ll read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , dead , mutilated , wounded , wounded , warranted , warranted , disconnected , lost , served , weakened , impotent , tied , paralyzed , handicapt senile , old , pulled out of traffic , restorted , done , destroyed , broken , counted , counted , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh for the first time , it worked so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; listed , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk to you , and i had to stop reading and collect me after this overfalling word tide and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a fancy old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be quite old .
but in fact , it was an issue in the early &apos; 80s when i was starting elementary school , and it started to build and shape my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
adding possibilities into people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations people have about how well these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this post seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i am celebrated for the odds and the adventures i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately got the online copy of 2009 , and i expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms shoot me &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the pronounce of a curse has a great force , because what you say out loud is also manifest .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to call a human being mindless as a child , it could be enough to restrict them and to translate them into ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors to you ?
one person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s an italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly . so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just designed for working with kids .
i thought the time i spent in this hospital was just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly infinite times , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these benches more than anything else . i hated them . i flew them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day , he saw me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and graceful -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to one day tear up one of these benches .
no one in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you wouldn &apos;t know what this is all about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
and of course , this was just a simple trick from dr. p. so i could do the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do with the idea that i could be five year-olds in the clinic in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as being one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethal people .
this is just one example of many , how adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but like the quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t leave us with a space to imagine something we would all want : to enable anyone to think of ourselves as powerful people .
our language tracks the social change that has been caused by a technological change in many cases .
from the medical standpoint , you can say , of course , that my legs , laser surgery for vision impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and beyond the limits that have set them their natural destiny to develop , not to speak of social networking platforms , allow people to have their own identity , define themselves in their own way , and to orient themselves to groups that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt , is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- that &apos;s an interesting story , because people are asking me over and over again to tell you how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : that sentence never fit for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think that &apos;s why i understand why .
this is a set of widrities that live on the idea that success or happiness depends on trying to solve a challenge without being shaped by the experience that i had , as if my life had been so successful , because i could eradicate the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both of them .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to embrace in order to cope with our lives better .
adversity just belongs to our lives .
and i tend to think of adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to have the impact , or the severe of a human struggle .
there are widrities and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is about it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with widrities or not , but how we deal with it .
so we &apos;re not just responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but we &apos;re also preparing them to get good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the sense that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything worse than anything worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : for one thing , the medical fact , to be amputated , and to the other , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability i had to deal with is that the world is constantly saying it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about us and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even a forecast about quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t have the baseline for someone to actually be disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just looking at what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for each one , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being wholly , and we don &apos;t perceive all of its forces and possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you may have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the areas of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventor &apos;s mind .
we shouldn &apos;t be devaluing or denying these challenging times , we shouldn &apos;t be trying to avoid them , nor should we be returning them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing odds in the vities .
i &apos;m more likely to be very clear that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embrace it , to grab it at the head , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is that things are as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we can think of adversity as something natural , voices and useful , and we can &apos;t feel that overwhelmed by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th birthday of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed out something very true about human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its kind survivors , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflict comes from creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to transform through conflicts .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of human beings .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut from when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of adversity , a sense of ick , a sense of our own power is .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
you &apos;ll never be surprised because your expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can think of adversity as a change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we have to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one . but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person , if you really existed ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality against another possibility or strength to even make it a little bit more dangerous , and so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen has found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals were carrying older people , 60,000 years ago , and people with severe physical injury , and that might be because life experience was valuable for these people &apos;s survival experience .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they &apos;ve all come for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i had grown up in a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around , and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he was .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographic moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i was very typical , to my birthday , two weeks later .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world , not at all .
and because i was born with no legs , and my feet had set up after them , and i had just a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bug , this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and they just punished me lies since then . &quot;
what i found really extraordinary was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i had won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i was with the pepper finders at the parade , whether i had a scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he was using these clips to teach his students , medical students from hahnemann medical school and hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of a human being .
and dr. kean said , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that children , if they don &apos;t always get told something else , and even if they get a little bit of support , if they leave children alone , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone dealing with it , were two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 if i had swapped my prosthetics against legs of meat and bones , i would not have hesitated a second .
i wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not sure .
and that &apos;s happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not despite these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who have constrained me or wanted to impose an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to them how they can manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own inner forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that , and open a door to someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open doors to themselves .
the actual meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means emphasizing something that is in one thing to tickle the potential .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes that i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who were first contacted with peace in 1958 .
but abandoning is not always such a bad thing .
again , what is the potential that we want to call ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into a whole school .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided by notes .
and the a students get harder to test , get the better teachers , etc .
they then gave students , over a three-month period , with a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note &quot; very good , and they were told that they were very smart , and after those three months , they actually wrote in .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that reverse students were told that they were just sufficient .
and that &apos;s the same thing after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- except for the students who had failed at school .
the key thing about this study was that the teachers were not denied .
after all , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jean if there &apos;s only one way to buy it is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you &apos;re wondering why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-students , and they were the students with the grade enough , and they were teaching them something and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that was broken has no hope anymore . he finds nothing beautiful . he lacks our natural , childlike curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human mind , to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around them to find themselves beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the boxes , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , he always says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have better memory -- more precise , more accurate and faster .
or you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer on good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has been looking for more and more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is all this just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor on the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the league of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because nothing else in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it yellow for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing special ones at the top of these branches have been successful in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we &apos;re branching from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this time period , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some of them came and left .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of it , and we can take the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes out of the pancreatic .
and while we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut has more bacteria than it takes cells in the rest of our body ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , you know , if antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could just want without any effort on their own .
and so when people make decisions , and even when the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestive nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a form of a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of creatures , perhaps three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , perhaps as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species that have evolved in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single touch ; and of human life , a little notation .
that &apos;s us .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope d hatred it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a freshman in college , i had my first biology classes .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : most of the time , the existence of life in single organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both death cells .
but at the time that multi-cellular organisms appeared , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that passes the genome on , the rest of the body will be deprived .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body is entering in the same moment as the sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knock on his hotel door .
i believe a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain to themselves these experiences , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautiful , beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; george says , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about passing the genome to the next generation , adapting and surviving generation after generation .
and so the imagery of this is that we &apos;re doing better generally , objectively , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i are evolved like boster rockets to send the genetic question to the next stage of orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that adapt best to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and in doing so , they survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would be vacuum cooked fish , yet they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look ahead in the next phase , i would say there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionaries were trying to make a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reasons for that would be that , first of all , because of medicine , we managed to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been chosen and had been removed from the population .
and second , we , as a species , have configure our environment in a way that we &apos;ve done it , that they adapt to us exactly as well as we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it &apos;s going to be an evolution of the traditional way , of course , being imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly maaling , but they &apos;re incomforting .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a species , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there is a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that isn &apos;t just natural , but it &apos;s led and decided by us as an individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could we be able to do that ?
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decides .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to anticipate genetic adaptations to the body that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or eliminate the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in drone to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about $ 20,000 and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long for the reality that there &apos;s going to be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be accessible to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and willem stemmer , two scientists who independent from each other developed techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in an efficient way -- which is called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research in which he took a grown-up skin cell , a fibroblaste , and by manipulation of just four genes that induced the cell to bring it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can serve not only protection from themselves , but also immunity to other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes from tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other little changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophily , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then analytical technology , the same motor of science that can enable the change to prevent disease , could also enable us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the battleness of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attribute that we want , we will be transformed from alt-style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure we &apos;ve missed this point in the choice of our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even in the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to be a society of dile and uniform , or robuster and multiplier ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to meet .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
for good or for evil , and sooner than you might think , these decisions are going to be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you human ability , or another one that helps wheelchair users to stand up and go back .
now , as a basic question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , the thing about thinking , what makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they put on in the morning that will give them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldiers who are carrying about 100 pounds on his back on average , and it &apos;s a question that they &apos;re supposed to have more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
there &apos;s a lot of places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard a lot of them whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design enables you to pick up deep , to crawl and to do extremely agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then i increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re here to introduce with our industrial partner this device , this new exoskeleton this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair driver , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are estimated in the wheelchair in the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and this is actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injury , who were in the bloom of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- were hit by fate , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brainstorm , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been for 500 years since , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , who had the result that they couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached here on their back .
here are also battery-packages , the engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints , moving forward in this very smooth and very natural gangkind .
i was 24 years old and best of all , when a monstrous purple tree was paralyzing me during a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my basin .
not long after that , a doctor is going to step into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never go back . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every five pounds of hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn how to ski , climb again , and even ride with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the life of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt yesterday told you about how these expensive and hard-installing car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman , as a fireman , for a volunteer , the fire .
well , in our city , where volunteers were supporting a highly qualified professional fire department , you have to be pretty early on in the brand to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the brand point , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the stewardship and find out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had just been in a very serious conversation with the homeowner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was in the rains and barefoot under a screen out in the flowing rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go into the house and save the dog of the owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny pictures of themselves out of the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was any lawyer or any asseter who could now tell people that he went to a burning house to save a living thing just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was the next one .
the main man was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up , pass the fire , and you have to get this woman a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went up -- the stairs up , down the hallway , down to the real firemen , who were already pretty much finished at that point with the deletion , into the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down , where i met my enemy on the front door and my beloved dog .
we wore our estimates out to the homeowner , where , not surprisingly , his much more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fire guard received a letter from the homeowner , where they were thanking for the brave effort to save their house .
one about everything that was estimated kindness : somebody had even taken her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at a large scale , but i also see the actions of charity and courage of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer this memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they reached their first million .
if you have something to give , you &apos;ll give it now .
in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us feel worse about that .
not every day will give us a chance to save the lives of a human being , but every day it will give us an opportunity to change one .
so go ahead and save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret to the progression of humanity .
a place where the women have the prescription , with sex , say hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relativity .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the congo forest .
if something of what enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people would have shifted too little choice , not only would the lives of people , but our dignity be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressive .
but unfortunately , we emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
as chimpanzees are led by great , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because it leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the deep depths of the congolese copyright whale , and they &apos;re hard to see .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been ravaging for decades , and has been challenging almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto enhancement .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree is that you can &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war monkeys , &quot; because they have more frequently , including bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that would be the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing your life .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and for us , play is essential for connecting relationships and nurturing tolerance .
and we learn about trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plaguing us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about the creation of diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and if you look at bonobos in the game , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us apart .
well , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage straight from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a game of tracking .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think it &apos;s more like it , right ?
yeah !
finally , read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of bringing new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game demands both trust and promotes -- while at the same time , it &apos;s incredible fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little bit quiet , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishment .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just as they do , we sometimes play alone , and we &apos;re taking the boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected linkages that we create are the real nutritional ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us into our past and present .
but they also true a secret to our future , a future in which we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing , enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you know nothing is possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
to successfully adapt to an unstable world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our game drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people equally , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play may be the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s hug and play this gift of evolution , as we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs in the middle of 1979 , exactly the same day , at exactly the same moment , every baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
so two couples , each one of them , a baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because if you think about the creation all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
imagine that just for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm carries an x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survival , both of them .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a student historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- that is human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought the fish knew something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been doing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who question social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in one body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word intersexuality .
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with an xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosome is leaving the protogonads that we all have to grow to testify .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone in the fetal stage is giving off .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or figure , found nothing and concluded that this was business cards of the devil , and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the gold glass so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgenic receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body evolves more to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s usually until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes up with something else .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian sticks and uterus , they actually have testicles and that she has an y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have in our bodies something called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
and the side ones make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , as i do -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me are actually talking about androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the result is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman born with testicles and has an androgenic receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , they can be distributed across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got the call of a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , when he was a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had ovarian sticks and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side beef hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were mapped male , his brain was exposed to the typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and they lower the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 , that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was mentally menstrual , that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , where ovarian tissue is wrapped up by testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarfs or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexually -- from surgeons , are often adapted to the norm is not because this is an advantage for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are totally healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a particular anatomic execution is going to be in with a particular identity .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity ; to be a black person means , supposedly , an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this incredibly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re confronted with a body that actually represents something very different to us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , two people in one body .
where i had seen most exciting recently , the south african runner caster semenya was last year , whose gender was challenged in the leichatlethik world cup in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me to ask , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there was no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female , and intersexual and intersexual , it &apos;s us that pretend that line is natural .
this is almost too limited to safety -- potentially for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have this kind of situation where , the further our science is going , the more we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identities , are much more fuzzy than we thought .
and it &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re pushing to the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward and further , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , is the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than the fetal life .
but being off a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , catastrophe .
we have very difficult conversations today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors had never been so hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead before .
they &apos;ve kept a feather under their nose , and when they moved , they haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we take people &apos;s important organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re starting to fight the really hard question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make somebody like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , i &apos;m excited .
and it makes me excited about the way we think about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , first of all , i have to know i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racists , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they did , i found myself looking at the maltzy musical 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they returned to was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another one that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years was measurable for us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they felt that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to father to son and so on .
you know , i talked about some of these projects earlier , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they nivellized the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities were counting , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an elaborate system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , where transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth rights .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of it , they created a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and they &apos;ve been preparing the future civil rights movement in a really wonderful way .
they didn &apos;t think about it , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were trying to do the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; we have a uterus and eggs as a difference is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to property , etc . , etc . &quot;
and women argued it successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who spach , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the civil rights movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , working on anatomical similarities before anatomic differences , again , successfully .
we see the same with the disabled legal movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
the problem , of course , is that , as we start to look at all the commonalities , we have to begin to question why we sustain certain separations .
well , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their understanding of sex or marriage .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that were being trapped in the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both of them in the middle of 1979 on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born early three months , so she was born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill the outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do on different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday appointment , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months early , she gets all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have a decent sex , to choose the right to drink the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has another biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other odds about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume that he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume that he &apos;s male , he can now be moved into what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t see the same right in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is making such progress in anatomy , that we have to make a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , it feels like science is self-sufficient .
we &apos;ve tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas decided at one point that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have an y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgenic defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of speaking , &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we shouldn &apos;t judge people by &quot; their skin color , &quot; but by the quality of their character , &quot; and goes beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their character properties ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights to people in this way , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserve social benefits more than some people i know .
i want to tell you that i probably also know some bright labrafts that are more capable of making more fundier , more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the characteristics of the character ?
it turns out it &apos;s really hard .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we did really well , and i think we would do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we make new life out of this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like it is , for example , in iran , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to be in a sex transformation in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephones with him , and i asked him why he made these interventions -- it was highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be very poorly treated , and therefore he had to do it .
i told him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change for the state &apos;s sake .
that &apos;s why i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to finish , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the ways that democracy might have looked , or if we had the mothers more involved .
and i want to say something that &apos;s radical for a feminist , and that is , i think , that there might be different kinds of insights that govern from different types of anatomy , especially when people apply group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to see if we can do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every , but on average -- tend to have complex social relationships and care for people who are vulnerable within the group , give a lot of attention .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about resolving stereotypes about gender , which is why feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there could be something , on average , that makes women &apos;s brains different from male , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relationships , and makes us more aware of the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to give about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would be more of a concept of , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , when we take democracy beyond anatomy -- to think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that is , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find a different colorful , crazy outfit at any time , and also to photograph and blog recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from second hand to flew markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my guardian obe to the environment and also on my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars , usually , for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me buy my own personal searching .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
is it going to be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
is it going to cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i &apos;ve been packing here at ted for this exciting week .
i mean , what does anyone bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought .
so we decided that the only way to go forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly one week are all i did in my suitcase .
i &apos;ve bet that i would find everything else i might wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman walking around here at ted in your underwear -- that means i &apos;ve found some things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m going to share with you some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i carried all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be poorly charged when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i &apos;ve spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself , and adjust me at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to estimate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to create these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i look like i &apos;m dressing , or i &apos;m reminding you of your seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you &apos;re looking good at something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good at something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they went through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailers fit everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , that &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to touch these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiative outfit , waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in my heart and search for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of induced chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point of view .
this is what we call our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this image in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because , in the formula one in the last few decades , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula one , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , you need , if you want to win a race , actually something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that transfer information from the car , that information to the system , and then process it , and then use it to send back that car decisions and change things in real time while information is being collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is that the real-time control systems begin to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as computers in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly but still increasing , and our last point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all this sense and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition organized by paola antonelli for moma later a in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , start talking back to us .
in a certain sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom is out there becoming both of them , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo formed the moses , it means that at the end he took the hammer and he threw it on moses -- you can actually still see a little spot underneath -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment is starting for the first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start to perceive .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a cell phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that is being collected from the operator , to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then finally zidane , the head shock .
and anyway , italy ended up winning italy .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the river tiber .
the morning before the game .
you see the timeline on the top .
early afternoon , people here and there who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
semi-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half time . end of the normal game time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of headscarf .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the seal team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the image of the place around co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today , in a way we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
so , very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our stuff comes from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes you make .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who , a little over a year ago , helped us mark the things that they were throwing away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the garbage , and we start tracking it .
here &apos;s the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but that &apos;s what happened in a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day that the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we showed that to people , then we can move a behavior change .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about this and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk to you about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition in public places to use water as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology with it ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves , open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they kind of cause a water curtain with water footage points .
if these images fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open to you to jump through it , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the entire building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open and leave it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths were done by drilling through .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can even let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , that day , if you go down the roof , you &apos;ll get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
well , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was a lot more fun .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the data points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these pictures could really start flying .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little bit of a little image point of change -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , totally synchronized .
you can have that cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of inert chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- an equal formation in two dimensions .
or irregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light is not the position of the images .
they can play with different types .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of points of imagery that you can walk towards , and that you can move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling that goes down to shape a viral v , as it used to be .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single one of people is being controlled .
it could have any single point of image that comes from people , from the movements of people , or something like that .
i want to show you something for the first time here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dance .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different prisoners .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the images , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something that we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i was talking to the oil industry recently , and they said they were actually doing this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re doing again with people in order to do something and to change the environment -- almost like what we call the cloud movement , how to move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that everyone can give a little donation to a picture .
i think the remarkable thing about the events of the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical world to a digital world .
this digitized , knowledge , and makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to ask us the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they &apos;re doing things together , collectively .
they laughed more than they do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of points of imagery in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of points of imagery .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with images .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics in 2012 , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both , the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light bulb at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for everyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about the context .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i got awe .
my heart was racing , i was dizzy , while i was trying to figure out what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were racing 60 feet out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice customs .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they interact with their environment in a clear way and their experience .
some people refuse to give up and cling to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
when you look at an iceberg , you think it &apos;s easy to isolate , separated and alone , as we humans often see each other .
but we wanted to go much further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome . it had more than 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought we could build it in tapes the size of the virus that we could vary the size of the tapes to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe his pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral nutrient drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i pretend , in my footage , of these iceberg mountains , as if i were to make portraits of my ancestors , in the awareness that they exist in these individual moments , and never will exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information on the computer , this digital information really has to be error-free .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
i want you to look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , it starts to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you another side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was on a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from walking , and he said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the valley .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and to support his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it a little bit , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him still with the spear .
we found 30 errors in ressing . if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you hear the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can actually do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly &quot; and diver bell ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just exhibit a check , and instead i put a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to fix it .
i committed to his brother and his father in the place -- saying , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to speak , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who carries all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people at grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw it with a laser pointer that only regimes the negative area .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are being shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sex parts , and then the vaccine words come , and then the bush-publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife at night and told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , we should find a way that tempt can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve done some things .
first of all , we insurred the doors , and we actually got a device that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you &apos;re like , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back and all the images on the walls would be for free .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach mall in venice , my kids got involved , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks in .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach promenade , some copper wire and some things from the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3-camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can be made .
no hospital .
now , any paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much . that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rumble before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nights , tony drew for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we got his bed so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break in the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with this content , &quot; for the first time in seven years , i drew something .
i feel like i was crushed underwater , and finally someone went down and dragged my head up so i could breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our struggle .
that &apos;s what keeps us there , and it keeps us going .
and we need to make a lot better on this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it comes in the same magic board .
and someone who has that kind of artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been getting all sorts of recognition .
we won some prizes .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about it is -- and this includes the entire circle -- is that there will be an exhibition in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there may be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty devastating .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with augeneralization technology , but i just captured something and surrounded me with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question was to ask each of you , every single day , where you have to be aware of something that has to be done , if not now , then when ? and if not me , who ?
at first , we just signed .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most promised child book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get like a scientist .
i can be a farmer , or in leather , but nobody has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an enlightenment is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten in the juvenile green and blue every week until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life using the toilet in the classroom .
they did it secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , in the middle of the night , i got a call from this teacher , woman posting , saying , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy that i know you &apos;ve found him .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to please hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at it , we laughed , we cried , and we knew it had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about was revealed .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and , you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started to make pieces , starting with pieces that included five to seven thousand letters , and we put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this was so often mentioned here today .
he needs the same -- he needs to have love and pleasure , and it &apos;s to give these things to us .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you rise to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power station , the clap , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the aircompanions .
so i looked at them in a minute , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we made these pieces in the surplus so we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
it &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a noisless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most thoughtless words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready for jumping . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the border staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was fear , life was at the end .
now i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people that i wanted to hand and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to make and never had .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase that says , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it .
i never want to make a difference in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was when we were missing the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair width -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i was no longer arguing with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock starts , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , to count . &quot;
if we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re falling down , i had this feeling of being human , of dying is not terrifying .
almost as if we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and this sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing to do .
i just wish i could see my children grow up .
about a month after that , i went to see a show of my daughter -- first graders , not much artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can put together these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time that i connected the dots to each other , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , is my only goal in life to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine that the same thing is happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine , and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to shoot , because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is three million rads of radiation .
and more than anything , are they the best parents they can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control the dirty numbers and valves , then we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we &apos;re able to get an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome is just falling apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the use data is transferred into the gray box , damaged the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that .
when we started our research at stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-per-part , which was used by countless cereal locations .
and it seemed to have something with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has added up as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized that this was a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively in the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the particular program that it &apos;s trying to infect is going to be on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet does nothing .
so , that really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should be better at figuring out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s built into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the use data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was systems function calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what animal species they were in .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for tickets and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could demonstrate or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we call ourselves to remember that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and it &apos;s very likely to be iran , because most of the infections have been reported there .
well , there aren &apos;t several thousand targets in this area .
it basically goes out to the bookstore nuclear power station and the incentives facility in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called them up and tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to let it happen slowly and uncanny -- obviously trying to have warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get quickly behind it .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse , looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is very much out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working on scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fits together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attack ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , this was really good .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were looking at here .
well , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a vending , and we had to recollect .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s natance , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- in fact , we used only hefu mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we put them in . yeast then automatically assembles them .
here &apos;s something really cool stuff that we discovered -- i really got out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top , you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the amount of sensors that are embedded -- so for example , of printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet has been recorded before .
so it &apos;s just as in hollywood movies , where , during the pursuit chase , the surveillance camera is being fed with before recorded video footage .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just to overlist the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and much more aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope shot .
so in a power station , for example , if the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up deployment valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system , will notice .
this is frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranium richness .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the usb data on a usb stick , as we saw in stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as possible .
and if you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these kinds of attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is footage over the course of six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we need to set the consequences , and we need to start preparing ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people think the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time somehow dangerous .
i went to prison -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing myself to most of my career in terms of terrible situations , and all that for trying to do is to study social ventilation in ways that they &apos;re enthralling and interesting , and hopefully understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little bit different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever made by humans .
some of you may have heard that a few weeks ago , i turned a display on ebay .
i sent some facebook news , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profits , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never leave that -- to buy the name rights of the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now , who didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues to what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name here is : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and that could fly around your ears after content , especially if i let your company stand stupid for your participation .
but again , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew someone would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i would not have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project i work on , my new film , we study the world of marketing , the advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty awful situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arrest me for anything as difficult and as dangerous as going into a room with these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is do a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the entire film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sell &quot; is that everything , from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely missed with brands -- from the cover sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the state center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the toxin that was used to make zombies .
if we were to print it with a page size of 10 and without distance , it would be 142 pages , just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the greatest film ever sell &quot; is the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention of &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the entire film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how conception people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to do that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s going to be hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde of vollidiots .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be extremely likely no .
obviously , with a virus , it &apos;s very simple . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a tough thing about the film or a difficult thing about me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about which brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that they have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as easy to do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out of &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turned out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your film . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have anything to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people as possible see it .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium tool that the masses bring this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a full transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that was not the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this image is for is a problem .
you see , if you type in transparency in google search , that &apos;s -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and look through , instantly understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far from each other as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome , and we cut it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but if it comes so far that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear still breeding .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange landway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the true version .
but because there was only one company , one agency , was willing to help us -- and also just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends making big , giant hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , giant hollywood movies , say that the reason why their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , giant hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to bring the process a little bit further .
every time i go on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short socket .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone &apos;s doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all sorts of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of somewhere , every time thousands of characteristics add to one species in just a second .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing types ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who is like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
in order to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of the black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that is changed at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothing .
80s revival hits skate points , except on friday .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry , and a stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand i &apos;m , i would say , is a reliable fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that are actually digesting dna .
part of hippie , part of yogi , part of the brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell museums all over the country , worldwide .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol writer .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and reliable fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could get inside my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , febreze , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for them , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
this is me . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world where you live -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what is the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is it about the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i want to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it get us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had added .
what is the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about them that they &apos;re not .
which other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of that .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personnel separated two , but they have supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth / playful brand .
they &apos;re very good at it .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with this .
and i think some companies will just focus on one strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- things that they &apos;re not sure about , they &apos;re going to be afraid , these elements , and they &apos;re going to be welcome , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and this is a fancy chess .
what other brands do they do ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and mindful brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , mindful brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . what is your brand ?
if someone asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would it be ?
do you have an up-attribute ? are you something that brings the blood into wounds ?
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit quiet , reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , contemporary , adventurous , out-of-the-box , and lovely like erol flynn , agile and professional , glorious , and mystical and gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are they mindful and monthoughtful like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , sure , born , holy , thoughtful , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by changing the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
over the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies up and down companies saying no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to get rid of this control that wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we normally couldn &apos;t have told -- stories that a commercial would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you use mris today to accommodate the functions of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where outdoor advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no proverbial africans , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove to school districts where companies are pasting their way to impoverished schools , across america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i succeeded , are where i was directly interacting with things .
and that &apos;s what these brands have done .
because they surrounded the middle man , they surrounded the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our world is challenging .
and how was that for them ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film was on sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiers in january , and since then -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
that actually includes just a two-and-a-half weeks of time .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i argued that we might be creating a new form of cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to , has recommended their customers to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i believe in is that if you take your chance , you take risks , you have opportunities in those risks .
i think if you keep people from that , you get them closer to failure .
i believe that if you train your employees to avoid risk , you prepare the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that we need to encourage people to take risks as we move forward .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities they might be afraid of .
finally , when we go forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view .
why should we do that ?
each one is a big spoon full , so we &apos;re going to welcome the risk .
and finally , should we welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights of ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 right now ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at 7100 to fund my ted performance in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i was talking about doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who &apos;s also today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demonstration .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
so when i went and went to these museums , i started to learn a lot .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the start .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and amuse yourself .
they want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just keep on . a lot of fun .
poke them .
thank you , but the best part is still .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite paintings , pieter breugel , at met .
i see this plushing sign .
if the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for anyone who existed in 1946 , and within 40 years , it will be four .
so this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click that away now .
this is one of the images we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want deep into it .
and so i started playing around , and i realized something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly noticed that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , and i spoke to some known people at met , and i actually found that it &apos;s a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the fast tuesday .
apparently , it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to get really close , you can go to the fractures .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out , so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to provide a challenge for nine .
but the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again , in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strikes ?
and what only if you want to see van gogh make this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in one of my favorite parts of this picture until i really am in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen this before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- just as rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
they can go and create their own museum online -- from all these pictures , they can make their own collection .
just , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is the sent , in the national allery .
you can get it all with remarks , send your friends , and start having a conversation about what they feel when they look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
if we think about biological processes , or any process to replace it , it &apos;s going to be a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was a humility experience for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to deal with this digital medium of art , and we &apos;re going to represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do that to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two half .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this person who is completely logical would be .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we have now , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at it , and then we start to develop our intuition .
they &apos;re basically doing the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing can be just one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a ground threshold .
he was another little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t leave you alone , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with soil swells , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you fly directly through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
this didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles that often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t all be followed by the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the way we think about it .
so i would clearly feel better with the whole thing if we could kind of show that everyday objects are also following the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i was doing that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re going to look at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesizers to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and for 100 hours , i refined to all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people get up and i listen to all these things because i don &apos;t want to harness them , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that unmoving objects feel the same way .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaves quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the passengers .
and that &apos;s what we did .
we turned off the light , put it in a vacuum , and we cleaned up all the air , and cooled it up until almost now , just in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave whatever it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of it just quietly lying there , it was vibrating . the way it was vibrating was kind of like this -- like an expanding and aggregating bubble balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time , not to vibrate -- something that is only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m telling you right now is something really fantastic .
what does it mean for an object at the same time to vibrate and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes or optimizing these processes to make octane or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise time points , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom is in two different places at the same time , which means that the entire piece of metal is two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing me in the clean space for all this year , because , check this out , the difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in a number of places at the same time , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just a selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with the fact that your body is delayed in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , switched the lights on and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a shot of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , where you actually sit down and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they want to live and work , they have the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
at the moment , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in developing countries that are not even a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re so much more valuable than it costs to build them .
so we could do the world very easily with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
now , just exchange the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments were doing this already ; half of the people who don &apos;t .
they could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they &apos;re going to rely on , in these apartments and their surroundings , there are laws to avoid complaints and to deflect from exhaustion .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out that it &apos;s very hard to get out to all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of apartments , assumed that the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i &apos;ve proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city , and have given them a name : charter cities .
i later discovered that , for example , around the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people can stay in their country and can do the same in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an undefeated area of our country -- what if we just added it to a message -- some of the american embassy , some of the canadian bottlenecks -- and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything on the surface of these messages that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a massive comprehension crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both novelty and simplicity .
he asked octavio to become his chief .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , by testing and by studying consumers , i &apos;ve been trying to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the essential elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we pay great attention to new technologies , but for progress , it requires technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us behind .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him jafour again .
they called me up .
and he said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so , in december , we met in the seat of a hotel in miami .
i tried to make it clear how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that a surface in some cases is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you saw corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple way , was that a charter city is a place whose first country is uninhabited , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and gives people the opportunity to decide whether to live or not .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we had to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i &apos;ve given another fact with a full talk that has a graph like this that tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
just this airport has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that will come out relatively soon that will have much higher sugar skills , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came up on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be a way to live in a city that would be in honduras instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , and they could benefit from their partner countries , which they would support in making the laws for this charter and doing it , that everyone can trust that the charter is really being enforced .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way of getting the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equally important for all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and mistrust for many years .
we went into an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology will have a huge impact without further increases in the cost of food or the limitation of their availability is when we see co2 as a starting material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s labeling a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they agreed with congress for a change in constitution to have a constitutional policy that is reliable for specific development areas .
in a country that has just been a major crisis , congress has been elected for this change in constitution at 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
but to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a large , new city center built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first with fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban construction is singapore .
there have been two cities already built in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been resolved , there &apos;s a lot of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there &apos;s a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there &apos;s a lot of people who would like to live there .
around the world , there are 700 million people who say that they want to live permanently in a different place .
a million people a year leave latin america and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families back to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes it &apos;s even children who are trying to find their parents who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities competing for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i recently did a survey with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which according to a typical american , is 70 .
and it was also done recently with ceos , where they were watching ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the various issues that this ceo is engaging with , and how much time they spent making decisions that relate to the issues .
and they found that the average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus the one in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at making decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , just if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision overlap problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essively and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank body water .
i loved to go to this business , but at a time , i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from thousands of years of olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the branch , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that they really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marmelade gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we &apos;ve set up a little coastal ceiling right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors there , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first of all , what would be the case of more people and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were more likely to buy a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who remained when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who remained when it was six , well now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you do the math , people would buy six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than if they had 24 choices .
well , deciding not to buy glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision overlap problem also affects us with very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could be easily put into production stores , converted the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so the theme of the day : saving money .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we were looking at saving the decisions for the retirement of almost one million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fund boats that were possible for retirement savings , the 401 plan , the probability of whether more is saved for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that would offer people something between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered , that , in fact , the less the participation rate was .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that offered two fund , they still had a participation rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fund , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you choose to participate , if you have more choices , even then it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate , rather , the more they had available to them , the more they avoided to choose actia and fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had available , the more they put all their money in pure money-market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that any one of people would recommend when our future financial well-being is important .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three essential negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re pushing up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they tend to choose for things that make them less satisfied , even if they make them objective .
the main reason for this is that we may enjoy looking at these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparison and boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate targets like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? to become a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to narrow , and we &apos;re going to get rid of the insignificant equality , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulders from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst selling cats , they experienced that the revenues went up by 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the world &apos;s ninth largest supermarket today , is aldi , and they only offer you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to market , about how to best manage choice , was something that david laibson has very strongly co-designed , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard worker is now automatically part of a life fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to the development of vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to confine it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , their customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
well , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful road in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;ll give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;ll ask you to clap when you &apos;re ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
you &apos;ve seen it this year with flu , we &apos;re always a year behind it , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of that .
you know , it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that they were objectively looking at the first time , they had more information than the second time , but i would like to guard that they felt more real than the second time .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
what brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overload , it &apos;s the concrete .
i think that this can be changed by creating recombinant vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s that in order to understand the difference between possibilities , people have to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be vividly and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an e.u. card or a credit card than they do on money ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel real money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so we did a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , and we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement savings plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve been leaving this gathering just as it used to be , we &apos;ve just added a little bit .
the little thing that we added to it was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were to save money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or pay a increase by four percent in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
this is what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaes , and potentially eukaryonts .
here &apos;s , for example , a study that we did in a magazine process .
it turns out that in the way of supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , the number varies between 31 different kinds of magazines up to 64 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choices and a better choice than i would have given you the 400 to do when i gave you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think that &apos;s jazz on the left , and that &apos;s swing on the right , please clap .
we are light-years from improving people , and our goal is to have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the voter not to give the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you actually want to inform ?
my fourth technology : premise of complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we need to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave a introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the ability to configure your car completely .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different from the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car color , outdoor color -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four options .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from the many ways , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re constantly using the standard choice in the decision , it means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing it .
what they &apos;re finding is that the people who go from the many to the low levels of choice are going over and over again to the standard choices .
we lose them .
go from the little bit of choice to the many , then stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though choosing the gear , nothing about my preferences in the interior state says , i still prepare for it .
so it &apos;s there . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment that &apos;s ever been done -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i &apos;m putting together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be interested in it .
let me wrap up .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that mild the problem of decision overlap -- limits -- get rid of the obsolete alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can do better with more categories , less options ; preparing for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is thought to help you manage the possibilities -- well for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people that you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re elected .
and the more we choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube . i look at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos become viral , and then why it &apos;s important .
a continent is always abandoned , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa there was no religious faith , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the beginning of the universe -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinite .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become insanely famous in part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video per minute are uploaded .
again , only one tiny percentage of it ever gets viral and is looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , let &apos;s do that .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this chart shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because this is what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine underneath geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet that ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show them a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos;s &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the chart looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we &apos;re taking pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 missed , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of the mystery science theater was one of the first people to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or a group of tastemakers took a standpoint with a big audience and made the process accelerated .
then this community of people who shared this great insider joke and started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; at youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new out of it .
this is what i &apos;m working on . he &apos;s called atlas detector -- 44 meters in the wide , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it &apos;s been looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats that look at this video .
it &apos;s important , the creativity that is in the internet culture of techies and geeks .
there were remixes .
someone made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find the pleasure of something , we do it .
who could have looked at it all ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what scripts could you have written in which it is in ?
in a world where every minute video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can emerge like the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i was not particularly interested when a friend told me to watch this great video of a guy protesting against a ticket in new york for bicycles .
i got a ticket , because i didn &apos;t go on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike route .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats got a funny idea , and his argument looked at five million times .
this approach applies to anything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
and all of this leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and determines the audience popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- did his beginning with youtube .
no one has to give green light to your ideas .
and today we all feel like we are owners of our pop culture .
and these aren &apos;t the features of the old media , and they don &apos;t even meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the entertainment of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man burning his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
hold it in mind when it comes to the introduction of the communicators in saigon , as he must admit that his life has been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now mocking his .
he moved back into silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused immense juries in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of puzzle is how a boat is running in the early morning red in lake .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had done a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and film ripe saga , a boat was sliding still on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put all the way around the lhc , then deliberately collided with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles bounce on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear was that they were scared of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little toxin bottle .
when i was a prisoner , first my sister and i would have drunk her and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , clapping every wave on the bow , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were deceived by the death courage of the men on our boat , or the failure of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that gave me one of the men on the platform .
no apple has ever smashed that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we went to footscray nieder , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the scaffolding from the ladder came from the rest of the world .
and the fetuses were swapped out between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double-layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and it was put into further education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to get out of it , and most of the time , the new stuff that always came from the second hand .
two strands for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this , when someone went to google and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; close eye , &quot; and there are transformers : &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
where do you go ?
something went up in me .
there was a meeting to reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came , so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then she made a cosmetic education , and she opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t wear the change , angry and imflexible , and sorgenerated children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers have been built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one i was the classic asian student who put unquestionable demands on themselves .
in the other hand , i was involved in uncertain lives that carried tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many people got help over the years .
and because of this help , in my last year of law school , i was chosen as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak in places that she &apos;d never heard of , and in homes that she could never have imagined existing .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have closed every day as much as they have been for 20 years , telling and sleeping with each other the stories of their day , we &apos;re still three in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we climbed the boat .
no one had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about juggling and training , and the neglect of marginalized and discarded .
and the more open i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires run 13-thousand ampers when the machine is running on high performance .
i met people in all the lifetimes , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of what was possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t do a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can be so easy to collapse the horizon , it can be so easy to accept the assumptions of the environment .
now i &apos;ve gone enough from my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world breaks apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an unquestionable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the guild .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me who didn &apos;t say &quot; an irresistible challenge . &quot;
now , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i cooked a huge top soup that we shared .
we worked late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and adventure went on .
so before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can afford that because if you cool them down very far , they become so-called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died just after she was born .
her mother was raising her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
with no support for her husband , she provided a sensation by bringing him to court and being a lawyer in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; it doesn &apos;t prove to be untrue .
i just shower in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shooting wall and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the space between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories and insured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding it this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let it go . &quot;
if there is a band in our family , it will go through the women .
you can see who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come into our way .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manufactured turdefect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of justice .
can i give you a bug in your life that bold every wave that drives the unbeirte , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
also , tans &apos;s mother is here today in the fourth or the fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and so , the wires are slightly heated , and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography started when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and when you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press it on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much rigged road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it &apos;s a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal to keep a realistic level .
the living giving birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like they could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is this about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more amazing if you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we overlist our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combination with photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two pictures are fulfilling these two demands -- from the same height and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images begin and end by connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photograph was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , adding photographic deprivation to the edges , like deep colors , devastated disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images , and let them look like a single picture , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely assembled from photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a fishery trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we repaired them , repaired them .
and yes , i even painted the house up on the island red to make it look swedish .
so to achieve a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to go out on planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
after that , it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way back now .
and one of the things that we introduced at radboud university was to do a major listener .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it &apos;s putting a cup of coffee or tea and asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how is it ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe only most of the electronic health projects fail , because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , she &apos;s got a button .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump to the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be functional again .
and they &apos;re also called off by my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not just the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a view of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump on my wlan-waage , and people are talking to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer pressure , peer pressure , to help patients , because this could be used for obesity , or it could be used for patients to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
next week , this is the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure measuring device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send them to their doctor and share it with others , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come into play . they can take control , not only to be the captain on their own ship , but they can also help us with health care in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start hugging patients on the team .
and they can do that through these kinds of methods , but also crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you a quick video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
well , of course , in a way , these accidents are rejecting the debate about the value of science and engineering at such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , when he has up , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone &apos;s collapsing , you can use your iphone , and in the next few weeks , you can also use your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this not only as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to bring this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our borders is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone breaks down , whether it &apos;s your own relativity or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
for example , they could be curier services , or technicians , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us and try to improve health , not just to make it better , but to take control .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to tell you about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... pay attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be described by the great water , responding to the rhythm of the dance , to overcome the soul of the living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , when he was defending the useless experiments of his teaching , michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind , as to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumpy is complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it may take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this over -- i &apos;m just going to jump the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything they hate , actually , we &apos;ve made them work in government .
the program is called code for america , and it &apos;s a little bit like the peacekeepers for computer freaks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with urban administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to the city hall hall .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban employees .
but what they really do is show what technology is possible today .
so , meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s releasing it when he &apos;s shredded , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire fighting when he &apos;s covered by a meter snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , and we had the code for america .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s done a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never puts these hydrants open .
but one particular fellow , a guy named erik michael obese , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freely smashing the sidewallows , right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a fire hydrant .
you agree with him for free when it &apos;s snowing .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , someone can take it away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s more , of course , than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows have written in the last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. department of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced it to people to open up the buyers when they speed up .
we know nine cities now that plan to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s been dispersed , organic , of course .
when you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
the acquisition of software is usually a few years ago .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method that parents can figure out which ones are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s now a project in the california justice that has cost the taxpayer two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this on every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spreads from rarely , is a kind of a shot in front of the bug to the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should be .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more important about this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sales institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who make the tools that we need to actually put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , recently , something strange has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; which we do together that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i &apos;m going to ask you to think about it , because things change .
politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government finally exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we &apos;re the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was all about choosing people in an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about community rats .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called &quot; eat , pray , love &quot; -- that , unlike all my previous books , for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the opportunity to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government because of many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal catcher .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m being treated as if i was a deviation .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is a real report -- this came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking about human to human .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it was a neighbor .
and the next post we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the landfill behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously , the demise is refused .
turned the garbage bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital is hitting the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
it connected these two people .
and the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white people go to church and talk about god .
for example , do you get very worried about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to national services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to national services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to remember that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they believe that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how many times did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , reflect our values , and then we meet our needs , and then we don &apos;t change much ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we deformed ourselves .
people seem to think politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we need to rely on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupythesia movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the legislation of finance reform .
that &apos;s not being politically active , that &apos;s bureaucratically active .
now , for those of us who have given up government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world we want to leave our children behind .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that you have to face .
do we really believe that we can achieve what we need to do without improving the one institution that can act on behalf of us all ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and that knows that it &apos;s not so hard to do things together , you just have to build these systems right .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up looking at your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting for , who can talk ; they &apos;re all allowed to talk .
you can express your mind on every channel at any time , and you can do it .
so if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t worry so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i had been faced with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
this could be to release a fire hydrant , to hunt uncrashes , to turn a trash can around with a thylacine .
and sure , we could have been able to release these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive performance .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all of them together , will we be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , are you not afraid to never succeed ?
usually my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up are going to be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are happening so quickly that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single boring slide .
... could you just show the slide , please .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather , the general shape .
this slide shows us an analysis of risc processors as compared to the performance of a local area network .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like some of the other ones that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is a potential in the scale of performance .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid to kill you the humiliation of a statement ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn the lights back on , please .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , which is the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of technology that i want to show you with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if transportation technology continued as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to pursue your life and never make anything out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scraped dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it doesn &apos;t go so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale increases exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
it &apos;s kind of like that .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
is that really true , then that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world we have now to a new kind of world .
it &apos;s kind of , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is , how is this new world going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is slowly accepting ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
beyond that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i was in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that something is happening .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that right now it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything &apos;s going to be so different , that a simple projection of what we &apos;re doing now just doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , yes .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do that , i &apos;m going to first talk about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into some billions of steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and that was 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with many of it floating chemicals .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they were doing that .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story of that , which is that at that time , little oil droplet would be blowing around , which had different types of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contained a special combination of chemicals , which allowed them to integrate other chemicals from the outside and grow .
all of them were like this , started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet were not alive in the sense of today , because every single one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little bit different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside and divided faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is that when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way that we don &apos;t fully understand , these droplet have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had them .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information to store over the period of 2.5 billion years it was born was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , which is exactly the same code and the same type of writing .
and every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we are so far that , just for the pleasure , we can write even things in this code .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white powder here that i &apos;m trying to keep in airports away from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is , i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 michael 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the degradation of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that nobody would know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened where things got completely different , which is that these cells started communicating and exchanging information , so that communities of cells started to emerge .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency to antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communications now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a sense the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
the transition spot is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-celled communities , communities of many different cell types , which work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level at which evolution took place was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step now happened within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing else but to process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures that were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;m wondering , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning happened within the period of time of a single organism , rather than through this evolutionary period of time .
so an organism , for example , could learn not to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years ago , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could happen within a time of learning framework .
what happened then is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most sophisticated version of this communication is the human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that sensible ?
i have a very complicated , unordered and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here giving basically cruel sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multicellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , present it .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video owners , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we have been .
so today , evolution can happen in the period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel to do ?
you &apos;ve also seen ty &apos;s little evolutionary example , where he showed some evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve accelerated the time scales again .
the first steps in history that i told you about took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to be just a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative corporations that they make us insecure about the state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without using the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i &apos;m doing instead , and what the designers of thinking machines are doing , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , this machine , and the machine is doing something that &apos;s way beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do it ourselves .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the micro-second area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please do all of these random instructions , run all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that i give you the next . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for that .
so , find programs that can be the most numerous .
of course , the chance of randomly elected instructions is that , by chance , they kind numbers , so probably none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them may be lucky enough to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , take the 10 percent of the sequences that i &apos;ve got the next .
store it , delete the rest .
now reproduces all the rest of the ones that have sorted the numbers best .
it &apos;s with a recombination method , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how are you doing it ?
take two programs , and they make children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that came out of combinations of programs that came a little bit closer to the presentations than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
reevaluate them .
maybe bring in some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take a few milliseconds .
and so i can have evolution go through over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in some more complicated cases , for a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t occur , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you do the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he puts out a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists didn &apos;t get the reputation of alcohol people over the centuries .
it allows us to do things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we can do these processes even faster .
so it creates a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time , as a cell organism , evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite make up what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of reputation , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this reputation , mentally immensely unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition .
but i really believe there &apos;s something else coming after us .
i find it very tirelessly of us to say that we are the final product of evolution .
and i think we all here are part of the creation of whatever is next .
now , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singers mukhtiar ali .
we talked about how nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at the time , we jumped into a car and swirled across the sky .
now we do this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds just from the 20th century , the young and often died of your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna was thirst , he took a bow , he pulled out into the ground and the water .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without a tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50-year-old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world of pirates and unhappy ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually get suicid seemed really neglected by their talents .
i felt like our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming about it .
they stopped us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to make magic instead of killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings pictures and text together , and animation , sounds and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i &apos;m going to be a figure in the book .
every once in a while , a letter for me falls down -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
this is how you have to dump the ipad and make the light bulbs out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life .
and they lighted the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book and every world becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magical device in the machine .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody like this because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , and somehow we &apos;ve incorporated the notion that creativity and suffering are , of course , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymph , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras for thousands of years in an old muffy book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that &apos;s devoted to new issues , like the environmental crisis .
on the issue of environmental crisis , a big problem over the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction in the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect pictures of natural objects with the camera of the ipads .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do that anymore .
this is a childhood ritual coming back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely okay for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you actually took .
there &apos;s a variety of ways that magic can connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the ipads video , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where technology &apos;s natural forces can get closer and get closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that idea at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in investigation , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the social weakest in the social settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hope .
being here at ted , seeing and hearing how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and a force that doesn &apos;t otherwise have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
see these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a state of tranceo , the glowing coal without combustion , an astonishing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body so that it can stop when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it being taken over to the next century .
it was also the origin of a lot of arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in the 1840s in virginia as slaves .
it was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped its world very strongly .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe . then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was something that made you want to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we can encourage our great creative lives .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running all over the place .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and i went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought this was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this went on for 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me by the hand and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we need to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me -- in my situation -- it would be very dangerous to start to swallowing down this dark path of the presumption -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in right now in my career .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey word ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , granny . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next , i &apos;m going to tell you that you &apos;re always going to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is that you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , granny . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack beer with him , my sister and i , and i went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer , and he offered one to my sister , and she assumed , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , let &apos;s do that today , you &apos;re doing everything else we &apos;re doing .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want . just do you . do you . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink something . &quot;
then he looked in my face and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going crazy about the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is going to be reviewed by the world as the work that came after my last book &apos;s progressive success , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t .
this is perhaps being transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity is power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all her grandchildren , they &apos;re something special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i &apos;m saying it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that this was the topics that we needed to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in jail .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are left on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black and 30 is in prison , in prison , in probability or in conditions of punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all the black men are either in prison , in prison , on currency , on conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that treats them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet we seem to be completely satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kind of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at 9 a.m. , gin . and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state , alabama , they permanently deprive the right to vote when they &apos;re convicted .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population has permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honor rights is going to be as high as before the election legislation .
silence is ear anesthetizing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , there are lifelong sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think , because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is : has a human being deserved to die for a crime that he has ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did someone deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i find this fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we executed , one we found for innocent , one that was disgusted and discharged from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i met , the safei from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i find this fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly on an airplane if for nine planes to pick up , one will fall off .
but somehow we &apos;re able to get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after a while of reflection , it seems to me that to keep writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people were afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re giving talks . they &apos;re telling people to stop saying that we have to stop saying that for the first time in our nation &apos;s history of terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with this . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the racism and decades of racially-motivated surrender and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to write a safe distance between me and my very natural climb about how the reaction to the writing will be .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand the meaning of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that racing is not overcoming without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak this way . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , they can never be in germany . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models this past year to do that , i &apos;ve been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they probably had better or more reasonable ideas than we can help to deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became completely silent . then one woman said , &quot; with our history , it &apos;s impossible that we ever agree again for systematic killing people .
it would be unconscious of us to be aware and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state set up people , especially if there were an unproportionate number of jews .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the charged black is , and the victim white -- in the same state in which the earth is rowing the body of yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this search led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but in the end , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deposition , limitation .
it seems to me to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to insist in a complex world .
for me , the time is to spend , to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe , at the end , things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development , it &apos;s not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection , which i believe is driving us , not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but to the dark and the problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said .
when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness , sometimes , to be in hopeless places , and to be witness .
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities need to be involved in .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be fully human , unless we have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care .
it will deeply touch it .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery busboycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white , her husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women came together and just talked .
occasionally , woman carr called me up and said , &quot; bryan , woman parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what will you do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative for the same right is . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine divine spirit that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocent convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the crimination system .
we want to eliminate lifelong without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine divine divine spirits of creativity , demons .
she said , &quot; this will make you very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and therefore you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be copper .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
socrates is known that he believed that he had a demonstration that would tell him that he was farther away .
if somebody takes something they don &apos;t belong to , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even who kills someone is not just a murderer .
and because that is , there &apos;s a basic human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so appealing , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not in the things that we develop , not in our intellect and our minds .
after all , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they handle the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we begin to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
descendants of the old tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result , this people moved back to an isolated volcanic mass rising above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body losem of creative mind , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i &apos;m getting tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas get ahead of our thinking , in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard sentences .
i go to the study prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who is supposed to be in court as an adult .
then i ask myself , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long and thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magicians .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a mandant .
and i started this contract , and the headline was , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black mandants like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my contract , i explained that the misbehavior of the state lawyer and the police and the errors were consistent .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country , that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed this crazy contract or actually written it .
and to my disposal , i had not only written it , but also sent it to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be literally living in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and helped the artist work in some way , and created the result of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought this was going to be so hard , so painful .
i finally got out of my car and went up the staircase to the court .
when i put up the staircase for the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me into the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something deeply in me , identity , the ability to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i went to the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you do this crazy contract ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in because they were angry .
i &apos;d written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office workers .
the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my angle , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial rest in the courthouse and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and it was disturbing that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going far out , but it &apos;s going to increase the justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we &apos;re not completely evolved as human beings , as long as we don &apos;t care about human rights and basic values .
that our survival is linked to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want to tell you , those of you who see this , just say , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen an obvious wish in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a volksale in this spring that &apos;s about actually doing an effort to do something about the money power that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the deadliers don &apos;t end up with a arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t look at it all for you , and everybody knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference is going to suggest that money is going to be investing in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate has declined immensely in america .
this fact is often put into context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of crimes of violence has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarcerations in this country were not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
so the dramatic high numbers come to prison inmates .
we &apos;ve been tearing ourselves down from the rhetoric of the punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , for the theft , a little bit of good , rather than forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i believe that our current philosophy of punishment doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really got a string to vibrate here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you .
bin laden &apos;s death is a risky risk of risk .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit lazy .
two : famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pepper spray of the police .
four : bad cartels . five : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
rs 8 : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but they could have been the last six days . or the last six years .
the fact is that the media prefer to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these issues .
so people in the west have really been thinking about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second every day , our senses are capturing much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our risk detector .
it &apos;s sorting and scattering all the information in the search for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; if it bleeds , the demand is very true . &quot;
now , with all of our digital devices that seven days a week , 24 hours a day , make all these negative news stories , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is doing worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance changed , and everything changed , and we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- about all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands of divinity .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
perhaps the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that it will allow us to create a world of surplus in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in very long run , but eventually overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so we can predict the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has tripled inflation to the average income of the world &apos;s population .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and the food , electricity , transportation and communications costs have declined by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time of human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the past 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we continue to increase our expectations .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , mobile phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the earth &apos;s imperators , could never have dreamed of that luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of this creates technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil showed us that every tool that becomes an information technology is going to be big on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient is doubling every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law for the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , in bad times , war or peace , recession , depression and high juncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it &apos;s not slowing down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite her logarithmic trajectory on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so growth itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
cloud-computing , something that my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow us to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how to use them to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can , within a decade , be positive about the lives of billions of people .
think about the fact that a group of students today can influence the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he &apos;s or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all the divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteries is a little too much responsibility to bury them to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have sound ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on this planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource free .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iiii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam for dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver brick , napoleon himself got gold brick .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at that time , more valuable than gold and platin .
this is why the dome of the washington monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum is 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy collide to the earth every 88 minutes .
it disposes and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , the first time they &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india by 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy has dropped 50 percent last year .
last month , this was published with a study that showed that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar will cost six cents a cwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy surplus , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are lost , and we &apos;re fighting for 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but here &apos;s hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnologies on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me permission -- his technology , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; and that many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water per day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents per gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology support innovation that is available today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- the question is .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013 .
just consider that a massacre warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it gets better , the things that you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are literally now dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what we &apos;re expecting in health .
i had the pleasure last month with the qualcomm-foundation to announce the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaners or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care staff .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls up the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and diet around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re predictably going from two to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will join the global communications .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education for priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe return to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to desire ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the biggest economic shots in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a sentence of new , never before heard .
how about giving a voice to the oppressed wherever you are , to pay attention and to change , for the very first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned through the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could create only in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism just in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
and it showed that today &apos;s human pattern recognition is better at folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , not a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as an assistant of the ceo in a rehab clinic , and at night was the best protein orator in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous faith in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to solve the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would be really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people would follow and apply feether magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long enough time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to do this .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little bit of baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon and turns around statistics and to use it to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat beat 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 beats .
that is to beat the ball out , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and whoever has tried to throw the ball on the first base , didn &apos;t make it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what you call a 300ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what to call a 400ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , is hitting four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times in a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable with it .
suppose you have a blindfolding , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindfolding .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , doesn &apos;t it ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your home doctor has a cardiologist whose average performance is at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday shelter , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
what we do , however , is we send each of them , including me , into the world , to be perfect with the claim .
never make a mistake , but nobody &apos;s thinking about the details of how to do it .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
in high school , a fellow student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little doorstep at the nurse residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely crazy mobility of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and outliers of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubuparalysis .
and all the time , i gathered more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while until i met a woman printer .
i was resistant to a teaching hospital here in toronto , as a woman , printer , to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at this point , i was the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for kardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
one process that , as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to give back to my doctor .
i studied ms. drucker , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made sounding sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crunching sound on both sides , which told me that she was suffering from congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart fails , instead of pumping the entire blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it &apos;s filling this , so the shortcut came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water tablets , so they leave out the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , it started to feel better .
in fact , he can feel really paranormal sometimes .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
actually , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the audience up and do what i should have been , which would have been a call to my doctor to explain it with him , so that he would have had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew it , he would have been able to contribute extra information to it .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the eclipse stars , in stone huts at the base of the glacier for 18 years , and two times of each nine years , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their quiet mother , they &apos;re now spending metamorphorphous in the lap of the great mother .
i had an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all of her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she was working outside in the fields , and she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
and by that i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me who tried to say , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i really lacked so much confidence that i asked the nurse who cared about ms. drucker , &quot; do you believe it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in a way , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgence papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i continued to work .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it would be like a thunderous train of air .
and there was another nurse saying , not the sister who had seen printer , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency medicine is particularly because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patient they sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular tone .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistant brought her back to the emergency station with 50 blood pressure , which is a dangerous shock .
she hardly breathed and walked blue .
that would roll over the country to them .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure elevators .
they hooked them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was shocked into the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that it would never wake up again .
she had suffered an untreatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to what they were doing .
the other day , they made her walk -- ms. drucker , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet .
you say that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this .
the next couple of weeks , i set out , and i learned for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it &apos;s a wreckage and then you get caught up and the best friend confronts you with it , and my terrible discussion , but when you get the bad conscience , and you sworship that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do a good job and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way that i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but you &apos;re bad yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , he was very dear .
she knew that at such a moment she could only do one , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he spoke to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure i wouldn &apos;t be sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the vector ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely it was .
i started feeling better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could be rounded .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was tracked by this poem , and it was only about getting fast enough to a sheet of paper and a pen so that when it was donating through her , she could catch it and hold it on the sheet .
and i continued to work .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had a service in the emergency station in a municipal hospital north of toronto , and i was looking at a 25-year-old man with full rage .
it was a lot off , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rug , and it was a little bit of pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin , and i sent him on .
and even when he walked out of the door , he pointed to his rocket .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my boss asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : remember ?
other times , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it was going to move on over land and -- as she said -- looking for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the full rocket ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s infected a streptococken-infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of racing , it &apos;s the upper breath , and it causes the exclusion of the breathing .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , feeling free and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold .
there &apos;s a lot of this going on , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no shortage in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments where she nearly missed it .
one of the things i thought he had kidney rocks .
i put on the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague , in the reconciliation of the patient , found a hardening in the lower right sector and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i put on fluide to rehydrate it , and i asked my colleagues to look at it as well .
and that &apos;s what he did , and when he discovered a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they got surgery , and they got fine .
both of them would grab me , ask me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but total nonsense .
some of my blocks have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as she goes through her , and then she -- she said -- it was like taking her other hand and getting it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish with my mistakes and talk about them , if i have the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t find , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach them my mistakes so they don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard of someone talking about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support and start telling them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before it really would be uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken off someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me that i had problems looking at them .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a totally denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them , the ones that constrain sleep deficit and the ones that have no limitation , the ones that have bad results and the results that have good results .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body and took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we banned the people who make the mistakes in medicine , we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my approximately 20 years of medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical study of medical errors and false treatments to learn everything that i could do for one of my first articles for the toronto star to my show &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inexquisite .
we &apos;re working in a system where every day one in 10 medications is either a false or wrong dose , where hospital infections are getting more and more and more and more , and cause devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of complete errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is deciphering the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong underfuels , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
it &apos;s the crux .
and all the time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say that ecological -- are balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came out and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two or three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with breast pain .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , i sweat it and i give it a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden , the story is transformed with contempt .
i &apos;m not taking the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they &apos;re not always telling me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this , in summary , is inevitable mistakes .
so if you take the system the way i was taught , and you put out all the flawed health experts , there &apos;s no one left at the end .
and when i heard that , i thought that was uncanny -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process was going on .
and you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everybody from the rescue assistant to the chef of the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , they &apos;ve been bumped in front of their head , and then they look down , and they &apos;re hard to swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that puts them in a position .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human , white , to embrace his humanity , is not proud to make mistakes , but to put everything out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports other people talking about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not just to make them , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit from it .
and it works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that is , people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is evolving to make backups that make it easier to make mistakes , to make people inevitable , and also to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for that , and that &apos;s specifically for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret it . but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember me .
i &apos;m a multinational . in order to work , i have to get up every day at the same time and sweat , get tired and really awkward .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about alterable standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing , but that &apos;s not true .
it actually collected fish .
he described one as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in great style .
but even in my masonry , i &apos;ve sometimes ripped this thing .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
this is a story that we &apos;ve heard many times about the galapagos , or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos islands .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the changing waistline .
because i experienced it when i was studying a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a few mangroves were surrounded .
there were about 20 inches of bunk , black chief breeders , a subset of the bunks .
the fishermen &apos; causes of this bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well off and deserved very well in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they &apos;re grown five inches .
they had been genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also lucky to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my participation in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather in the early &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fisheries meant countries that already started 100,000 fish , the industrial fisheries of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on that , and we made rehearings all over the southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our fangs were sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubble , the trumber pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came to deck and then was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you do a survey and then you start with commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case -- a hard reason or soft coral is becoming a mist .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we started a vivid one .
it wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of rubber is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but not even keeping ourselves in mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it &apos;s changing . it &apos;s changing , because for people , their actions are very natural .
each generation looks at the images that they take at the beginning of their conscious lives , as standard and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and in the end , they just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s what we &apos;re going to do right now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer the way they were .
you might think now that the problem was people who certainly , when they lived in predatory societies , killed animals and became aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurring animal .
you lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a big loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get less rare because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out one day , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to rape on the hangs of the amazingly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they &apos;ve learned in abstract , is confirmed in amazing glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really , i &apos;ve told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embodied modern artist who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
there &apos;s little fish left over over time , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they operate in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there &apos;s , for example , the anecdote that the report of a capitalist in this area , who watched great fish progeny , can &apos;t be used , or fisheries scientists don &apos;t normally be used because they &apos;re not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormously big role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we recreate the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that makes it possible to reclaim their normal values .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film can perhaps fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the colors and the shades you might remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahontasian story , why were they so touched by the image world ?
because it calls out something that was lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron so that he turns &quot; avatar ii &quot; under water .
thank you .
he was driving at high speeds when he suddenly heard a little fragment of a tune that , as is often inspiring , is very difficult for him to grasp , and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s after that , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could trace back where a text came from .
if they found an article with false thought , they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this in the west , and how much that would constrain freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printer manufacturers and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow spots on every page , in a pattern that clearly leaves the page behind you and your printer .
this is what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about that .
and that was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the existing online problems that we have today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the online criminals motives are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old envelope in him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song for forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjsorn sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour , and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they have illegal acquired it by using trojans , for example , to steal money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers who have collected our credit card information in the input on the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror two months ago was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and this account was 14.9 million dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free-foot basis , and the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that today it &apos;s more likely that we &apos;re going to be victims of an online fragile than a fragile in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes are going to be happening online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it .
the second largest group of attacks we can see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in online attacks .
so these are the three main flu groups : criminals who are doing it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are resistant to it , but the last group are nations , governments who are running the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows unprecedented what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete mainframe certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to be insoviet , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system a lot .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group if he could make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in the wake of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly distributed in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign services like gmail , because they know that they can trust more than local providers and that they &apos;re encrypted to ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can still , if you &apos;re in an foreign .
certification agency hacking and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he finished the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened , for example , in egypt ?
well , in egypt , the insurgencies in april 2011 looted the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
these records were a folder called finfisher .
and in this folder , there were notes in a german company that had sold a few programs to the egyptian government that they were able to catch -- in a very large way -- any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the headquarters are right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , only a few weeks ago , found the so-called state strojans , which was a trojan used by german government officials to compromise their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty safe to tap your phone .
he just looked into the sky and said , &quot; sorry , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the statesman to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but i don &apos;t care because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry !
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy has to be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a choice between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write up a song ?
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may be trusting our governments , every right that we &apos;re going to give away is forever .
and do we trust , do we blind to any future government , any government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete block .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measures that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in a position to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment when i can take care of you .
it was called the &quot; automatically connected stone . &quot;
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s been estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squeeze somebody else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re pre-made , light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect to magnets .
that &apos;s how you can &apos;t put them together wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
they put a blue on a green one , and they can make light .
they can put a switch in between , and so they made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule that &apos;s here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they &apos;ve made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wired or solved , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how they start to understand the electronics that surround them in the everyday world and that they don &apos;t learn in school .
like , for example , a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with film , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and we told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was often as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everybody .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design boxes and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , pull them out and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the hard climbing that surrounds it was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t cause anything as an anger and left it where he came from , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the alien , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed the way i worked , and it saved me a little bit .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of these pits of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s a disaster . it &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not only bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are responsible for the younger brothers for the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just plug the project in .
but then i remembered how tom had spoken in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript , and i spoke my comment towards a blank corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and maintain your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t -- you know what , the hell with it .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i &apos;d like to give you a protocol that i &apos;ve been here for my part of the job today .
because , at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered mondshell with holy dances and music that have been held for hours until the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became overseas .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen such a performance in your life .
it was as if time was standing still , and the dancer was walking through a kind of pforte . he did nothing but he had ever done it before -- 1,000 nights before . but everything was merging .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed to be fully human .
it was lit up from the inside , and it was lit from the bottom , and everything was lit up through a divine fire .
when this happened , people knew what this was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moses of south spain conquered , they brought this practice with them , and the balance changed over the centuries , from maybe allah , allah , allah , allah , the olé , olé , that you still hear when you &apos;re fighting and flamenco dances .
every time we think about innate and landscape , we either cook and the old smell of the noble wild , which is a racist thought in its simplification , or in other words , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical : it &apos;s allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer carries a fifth of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe it &apos;ll never rise to those heights again .
and maybe somebody will never call god &apos;s name again , if they turn , but what should they do with the rest of their life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite as full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe in the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just think you &apos;re a loan -- from an incredible source of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so , infants are not sentimental , nor are they being balanced by nostalgia .
that &apos;s how i started thinking , and so i think , surely in the last few months , while i was working on the book , which will soon seem -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly anticipated successor of my remote success .
what i have to say to myself all the time , when i get crazy about this , is that there &apos;s no fear .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the stupid divine genius that you have set aside is deciding , for a moment , to show a smoke of wonder by your efforts , then , olé !
and if not , dance still dances .
and , you know , olé ! it &apos;s all for you .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria contaminants of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s inhaled into human consciousness .
it &apos;s like , you know , olé ! it &apos;s all for you , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had shrunk the size of the bottom 48 states by 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
well , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in winter , and it &apos;s shrinking in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood that flows out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is the frozen reason to save the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it hits it , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate-changing materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we crossed this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane itself is challenging from the water .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how will we get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat rush heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andes who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind who can be or determine their fate will be a whole other person , and will have a different relationship with that resource or that place , as a little kid from montana who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be carried off .
this is an annual dive river .
but volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level is going through land ice sheet , it &apos;s going up into the sea .
these rivers are growing fast .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative iceprint .
and the west antarctica , which has shown up over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , just like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a bunch of heritage , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will also fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austroction all over the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have at a really extraordinary and unprecedented scale .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we have 70 million tons of co2 produced every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day into the oceans .
look closely at the area of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both of the indian subcontinents , where there is a dramatic decline in the oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two biggest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be angry .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political debate in our country .
and the coal industries and oil industries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year trying to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
and around christmas , i went home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you may have seen it in the news .
this is all over our country of the second largest waste river in america .
this happened around christmas .
one of the ads of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
there &apos;s a shell and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests of the uprising of hukuk and the curved celestial cords and the cannibali spirits who live in the north of the world , spirits that they would be involved in their hamasa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable , and he &apos;s loving , and workers remain in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , a part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
that &apos;s why we set it to the top line to spend a significant amount of money to bring a commercial action to the truth of coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quietly .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkable clean coal technology that you see here is changing everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean carbon technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all these people teach us that there are other ways of being there , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting the earth .
it &apos;s a picture i just took last april in the northwest of amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
you have 100 percent clean electricity in america , in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help us stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
new america . find out more .
this is the last .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that make our world better .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
new america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african adage : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we need to get far , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were growing up , when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and reach the hands , take the blocks and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
space thinking is tightly connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist , inspired by the kind of interactions that we have with real objects -- with my professional adviser patti and my colleague , jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we were to use computers that , instead of a mouse show , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface -- what if we could intervene with both hands and take data and physically arrange it as we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can move them like building blocks just by extending your hands and reaching .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other and perceive the hostilities of our interactions , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configuration for the video remission , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward , and when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits occur to each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so if i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what you &apos;re interested in .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the indians , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendencies .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to realize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shaking colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve configured three seats as color pots , and i can use them to cast color in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shake a little back .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , mathematics or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m doing with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that &apos;s a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable , randomly assigned letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested on a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomami , as they sniff this stuff , this substance that they make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get mixed again , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out , and i took a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the right .
it turned out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
now , sniffing this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , saturated by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trick-film twist .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the hall of the table that shows this character .
this is where he makes the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s bringing a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the seats and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but it &apos;s a resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with the open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have today to show you is a music sequencer for live performing that we &apos;ve recently developed , and that siftables act as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these notes into the sequence that you can put into any patterns .
and you put them in by just holding a ton siftable to a sequence siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filter .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic ethirea with the discovery of the magical mushrooms in mexico in the &apos; 30s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as a hallucinogen , because when you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then there &apos;s some superior effects like speed and volume that you apply to the entire sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to eat the leadership voice into two sequencing sections and put it in a series , expand it and add it a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter with the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the barrel , for a little more expression .
i can do the sequence while it &apos;s going on .
and by doing so , i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; they can expand or shrink them in the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken oral , because they &apos;re made through a pre-occurring enzyme in the human gut called the monoamin-oxidase , denatured .
and finally , i can shut down the whole sequence by bending the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so , as you can see , my enthusiasm is to develop new human computer interfaces that are better adapted to how our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to share with you some of this new design world and some of the ways we work on what we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we &apos;re at the verge of this new generation of tools to interact with digital media that bring information to our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you !
yeah , good day .
i &apos;m happy to be there .
yeah , so what is biohacking going to be ?
they can only be put in touch with some other chemicals that mao denatrize .
i &apos;ve got to take a little bit out of this , and that is biohacking is about modern molecular biology .
i &apos;m studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been looking at biohacking for a few years now , and i started that because i just wanted to know , and i wanted to do it all myself , which i learned in the study theoretically .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i kind of wanted to get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general is now , in general , speaking , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , it &apos;s extremely important now , and much , much more important in the future .
there are all kinds of controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the corners .
there &apos;s now craig venter in the united states who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
there are things that have come to life , but most people don &apos;t realize , like bathroom enzymes that allow us to wash with 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the tadpole contained in the liane is mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so from the interest of this , this technology , i went on to this point .
this is why hacking ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then in the media it will always be , yes , the hackers will break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacker scene , because it &apos;s not really what it really started like and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that is that the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about , in a playful , creative , original way , solving a problem .
and the problem is , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can be a social problem , it can be just a access problem , which is , how do you simplify things , so any problem that you have , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better ?
and it &apos;s just been done with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , there &apos;s also a whole assembly scene that has electronics circuits doing all sorts of things .
and right now , in biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adjacent plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and you can hack it , like that , and i found it incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
this actually has only taken two thousand eight thousand really forms , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people around the world .
these are the ones that have more artistic directions , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborators with scientists to engage with these technologies and ask questions and process them creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions , and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a more attractive access to having such a playful deal with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s.a , which is actually more like a forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and they &apos;re going to be asked like this , and they &apos;re going to be used .
and from these networks that have been popular , they have evolved a scene that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of school , such a private school , nonprofit unification , where everyone can go .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what can you do when these lab protocols are done .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fibers , which is , they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for longer than those other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics , and they &apos;re combining it in a very remote way .
a group of ankara , who i met a while ago , who have this is a group of students who wanted to convey more to the public what they learn in college , and they did this in a way in the street , and they tried to explain to people what that is .
and i have a lecture on the top in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that really unifies you is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with this , and also very specific to society , to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with this , do you have any interest in bringing you in ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology , you kind of need material .
you need , of course , biological materials , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant is talking to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab is that these are sort of crude machines , extremely expensive , extremely distant , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. &apos; s and so on .
and our approach was to say , o.k , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because each coffee machine actually has higher sophisticated technology than most lab devices , which is really the way it is .
and the o with this premise with this premise then , brian degger , for example , tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure pot , a hot plate , and , yes , such a soup castle , and then grew bacteria , works .
so anyone who &apos;s been playing a soup that they &apos;ve been standing for too long has been done .
i then tried to expand this in my lab at home , and then bought myself a second-hand device on ebay and did some d.n.a analysis , tried to do a paternity test , like this / d.n. a fingerprinting , back home .
this should not be a joke , but it should be .
and down here in the picture , you can see the lab , in leadership strikes , so one of the things that &apos;s been admitted to garage , with all kinds of lab scaffolding that the university has done , is a group in paris , which is what &apos;s set up , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s also quite interesting things , so i want to cut a project for a minute .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , so you can see it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s a lot of people who are doing it alone , all the way to large organizations that are already doing it in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of realized ourselves , o.k , it &apos;s now here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website , the founder , and said , o.k , we really have to meet now , also real meetings , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and just after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and , then it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed his wishes , his and what moves him , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t combine that , but that &apos;s , yes , i think it &apos;s a pretty good thing to do , and people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but somehow it didn &apos;t get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest that appear to our eyes as a species .
so i think we &apos;re in the biohacker scene , actually , one step further than the academic world .
yes , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was we wanted to build what &apos;s called an optical trap or an optical brush .
this is , if you focus a laser beam , on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then move in this focus , so it &apos;s kind of captured there , like a tractor beam beam , basically .
it really works , it &apos;s done in academic setting , and we thought , o.k , we might get it , then we took a webcam that &apos;s going to screw up , turn the lens off , turn it off , and then you have a microscope that increases about four hundred times .
you see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart and got the torn out the laser and then tried to focus on this camera there .
and unfortunately , that didn &apos;t work , but we &apos;ve learned a lot .
this is another project that came out of the french group from paris , that worked , that &apos;s pretty cool .
and that is , he has this kind of brain wave measuring device , this e.e.g or something , so he &apos;s been doing neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what happened .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down on this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought , then different lights in the room went on .
it was a pretty fancy project .
another thing from the united states , which also has to do with this paternity story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , which is a , reproducing fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers in the crime scene , they go , they collect some hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive , that you buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off to 4,000 euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyfield , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve been sitting down to two builders , and they &apos;ve been saying , o.k , we &apos;re going to make it easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve got the open source , which is free hardware , electronics , assembled this device , and they &apos;re now , you know , they &apos;ve got it to market , and they &apos;re now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think it &apos;s kind of a sixth dollar or something .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a context where it &apos;s clearly more available .
so i think it &apos;s a very boring hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you place d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles into these air pressure pistol particles , and then i shot them on onions , and then i made them light with it .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but that &apos;s my prototype , but it was pretty much off , like this , on a branch like this , the thing on it , the electronics on it , and the pressure was too high , the thing had broken .
and then i took a chicken pender and i attached it to it .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants on full moon and you sing them in a different scale .
a chicken pender , if you make it full of water , it has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s 40 to six hundred bar .
and then you can accelerate the particles very much enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about fifteen thousand euros to go up or something like that , chicken pender about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
so this is what &apos;s going on right now is the core issue of the scene , is to increase this availability of technology , and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can engage in it .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no chance of getting really good at it .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , it &apos;s not the same as if you did it yourself or saw it .
and i think technology is becoming increasingly important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society as informed citizens and to talk to you , you need access to knowledge and technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to make it and understand it .
well , that doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
and that then firms , under the headwords , open knowledge and citizen science .
so that you &apos;re being put as citizens to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who have at least officially agreed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re there with fewer people than actually exist .
so i know some of you who haven &apos;t agreed .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , these places are put together there .
