you know , one of the great ways of traveling , and one of the great pleasures about ethnography is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , and who still feel their past in the wind , is to touch them on the rain , to taste them in the bitter leaves of plants .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
now , the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of indigenous people , look at them as orginial and colorful , but somehow they &apos;re confined to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , continues .
as i said , it &apos;s only started two thousand .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five .
and this has now become a giant network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that have been represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to stop in the same way , and then we &apos;re also pretty well connected , so that we can also get more people involved .
and i would invite each time to deal with it , and also try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you have enough energy in it , you get a long way .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important to the good of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
how do we actually work for people ?
so , the fact is that in the 20th century , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era where we were facing and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
this is a question that really moves me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and most of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media and make it a very satisfying experience .
because i think that interactive media is addressing archaic , cognitive models in us , which is thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can just recreate them through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech that you &apos;re facing is actually going to get you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i used to write down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a fundamentally natural relationship with virtuality .
it sounds unusual , in principle .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities for life .
the second thing is that since that archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very image , even though today we &apos;re using a coded language .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the sensitivity of linearity , and of course what tells us is that we now feel the linearity as normal .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information .
now what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove this to you .
how many doors does the house that you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , and they live in this house , and they look at how many doors there are .
and that &apos;s what they do .
and the problem is not the technology itself .
they &apos;re virtualizing reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re trying to do this on the media campus , for example , to represent virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do this all the time .
and that ability to virtualize the virtual reality that people have had to have in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have any photographics .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory was going on .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they were passed on knowledge .
the sioux indians did not stop being on sioux when they bent and arrow tasks , when americans stopped being americans , when they were doing horse and horse cars .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so strong in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
and the interesting thing is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s right .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , the human being was also a media producer and a medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;ll talk about in a minute .
crucial tool of information mediation has been stories for all of the time .
shamances , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were added to keep knowledge in stories .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of rule .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong on stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan goddess , we &apos;re still joining a thousand hours a year with the receptions of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life recepting stories to the achievement of the grandyear-old .
now we think our love of stories depends on the fact that we sat on our parents &apos; lap as a child .
no , no , far away .
this goes back a lot , in the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the realm of interactive media , it &apos;s particularly impressive that we have anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of the nootka-indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , of the australian peers .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-maps , they used the so-called songlines , or grapes .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be mapped by songs .
where the language was subscribed to them by the subordinated rang .
that is , you navigated on sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and these rhythms have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and of course that has allowed you to defragment these songs and sit them in a different way and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to come from top a to b ?
anyway , not to navigate .
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i do a lot of research recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
what happened there ?
what &apos;s happened is the genetically engineered machine age .
we &apos;ve moved before in what we call the avian age .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what happened is the book , and what happened is the photoligraphy .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened , is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so , unfortunately , we &apos;ve lost a piece of god to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the image , so not the television , the internet and so on , what we now call mass media , have fossilized our memories , and have brought our ability to virtualize .
let &apos;s make a little bit of intermediate .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and in many ways celebrated as part of a development strategy .
from avian age to machine age .
what does our thinking have an impact on our minds and our memory ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and over the course of the centuries , they have been more and more overwritten by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can depend on our personal memories .
we don &apos;t produce ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language that &apos;s abstract .
we don &apos;t think of things as being in pictures anymore , but we &apos;re coding them to you in our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things linear happening .
and we accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetans if you haven &apos;t experienced it on the bottom .
what we were left with is the story telling .
still , we are very , very arrested with the storytelling as an information mediation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vow age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacical , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage , they bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , then one concept that makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , which is to think of virtual as something normal , natural , is being addressed again .
i once traveled with a young colleague of 6,000 miles from chengdu to western china , through southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered during the cultural revolution by the cades .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving in non-existing , virtual worlds , all by the model of the holodeck .
and other examples are the ambients , smart systems .
these are spaces that can react to a human being .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope that the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor &apos;s work of michael burk , annkathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the two last ones are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so that they can talk to the two about the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how , again , this archaic , cognitive model is addressed .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the tag of the panel lama .
which is , of course , extremely opposite to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people are happy in front of any console or playing with the console in their hand .
anyway , they do that in it .
this is a game for outside .
and that &apos;s what it &apos;s meant to me to explore the outside world , so that i &apos;m exploring the real world again .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data space that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut down so much .
you can explain that in a moment , there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and it &apos;s about exploring a city by looking at where positive or negative places have been twisted .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
that meant that during the chinese invasion , he was killed immediately .
and now we can look at this .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize this in my talk , and that is that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vow age , and that have been a little bit disrupted in the machine age , that the cyber age can be activated again with what we call the cyber age , and that , in this way , we can actually get back to our roots about complex , technological , new products , not really in the future , but actually come back to us .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very excited to be able to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a speaker sack , and mine is going to talk .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness , which brought people to nepal .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also looking at the issue of curiosity , and how does the curiosity change our thinking , and why do we lose curiosity , and maybe have to reinvent it , and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often pushed into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why are all the designers starting to engage in such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , more user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
and before the background , i was in the field of natural user interface design , which is the next generation of human computing in the context of the human computer , looking at how our tools , or how the computer is changing from the computer sukessive to the digital assistant .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
so i &apos;ve been looking at this , when is it that natural or intuitive ?
maybe you have to look at it again .
why does this happen ?
so if we look at the development of our society , represented here briefly , we &apos;re now moving from the third to the fourth social generation or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society through language .
that means that you found yourself by talking about a common language , you could communicate with each other , you moved into the same cave , or other areas , cities have been educated , or villages , and so on have created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
you also had to learn , so no toddler can talk about nature , but we learn it sukessive and proportionately .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and carve it in stone , and i manipulate it as well .
depending on how i &apos;m mastering and when i &apos;m mastering , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but sukzessive then pulled this script as a primary medium , got in .
then the next generation that we actually live in today , primarily .
this is the printed and print script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was the same monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , are you insane , when people start reading , the afterwards want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we come to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generative shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re doing this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what &apos;s banging on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no beef is any more or other phenomena , which is , i want to mess it up , and i want to pursue it .
the sister who did this brave action was brought into an education camp .
and these two worlds are now banging up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is expanding a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
but now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global one .
not if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means that local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , possible , possible , possible intuitively , but also the total transparency .
as you knew at the time in the village , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of our self through these mobile devices at the global level .
be it that we know globally , and we accumulate faster and faster and faster and better .
as it used to happen in the village .
one day , they walked out of the box on a armband of maos , and for that transmission , she had to go into a heavy job camp for seven years .
now , i &apos;ve just been looking at this before , which is , in fact , what &apos;s natural to us , what might we have lost , but what &apos;s also instinctive to us , so what makes the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it usable , so everyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not only do it change that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and when , of course , is a little intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , influence it and just design things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re very intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you then , even during the study , look at the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s where you start and look and say , okay , now i just look inside the inner self .
and what does it actually look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it actually mean , of course , intuitively , and how do our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
because steve jobs once said , you need to take to understand understand how it works .
suffering can be intolerable , but the dissolving spirit of people is something unforgettable .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitively handable , which means in the core .
and you can see already that you have a our seven senses , most of which we think are only five , now it &apos;s even seven acknowledges , and it &apos;s certainly coming in the near future , and also the next , eighth sense , and the extension of ourselves .
and to see how do we process information , how do we take information ?
to say alone , what is information ?
information is any difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand at the core , in nature , when information becomes information , when will data become information , and from information , so that i know how to make things intuitively possible or naturally handable afterwards .
and of course , also , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i design things , i can confuse them like on the right side , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper is , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
so a lot more natural , which is in a vessel , but i kind of see where salt and pepper is in .
and at the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice . do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonies or a polychromatic world of diversity ?
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll just think about where the one on the right is .
and the left is just intuitively access , and then i hope that no sugar is in there , the salt is just like that .
but also our perception of ourselves , how it also deceives us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
so it &apos;s a circle .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that , as we move towards a thread , shape-less , generic view of the world , we would see not only the entire range of human imagination reduced in an envelope , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
a second circle starts to correlate or associate some similarity .
and when i &apos;m holding another halboval , we don &apos;t see one more unit , which is circle , circle , and yet we see one unit , we don &apos;t see three parts , a circle , a circle , a circle , another .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
it &apos;s called the design law , or the design psychology , which also affects us in perception .
the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
the design law of proximity , the design law of continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget about it .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things very intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting in vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
so we have the eyes on the front , and now you think we see from the front to the back .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see from the back to the front .
namely , they projy an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just projieving our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our seheaters , to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projieved what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , and that &apos;s coming back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t look at the front , and it says , now , really , please look again , and make sure that what you see is what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen , and in what million-second areas these things happen .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture of you .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , created the cult of the seed , the poetry of the shame through the prose of the priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- took place only 10,000 years ago .
it &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes something .
anybody see something in particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i see that , it &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you see it all the time .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled them now , that they don &apos;t recognize any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve conditioned them in a very short period of time to see this dog over and over again in this supposed picture .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m proybeying forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which then , in this , yes , it &apos;s not actually gray , but here &apos;s the kind of rosane mass that &apos;s going on .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
this is our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something , it takes me three seconds to , sort of , get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times when i do it by doing someone at three seconds .
he &apos;s got to process that as a present .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what takes fifty milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period where you fall in love .
that means , contempt , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i &apos;m not taking over the election , which can happen in the same way .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a quick speed , as we see things .
and also , as we see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of securing against our environment , so that we can think about that in a way .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
of course , the designers not only deal with the subject of perceptions and neural processing , or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily , with the subject of human objectivity .
so how do a person deal with certain things ?
there &apos;s a product linguistically , the practical functions , so formalaesthetic aspects or things .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , and why is there a little bit of work that &apos;s going on , where there &apos;s hardly anything in there , so horrendous sums of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more on the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re looking at as designers , of course .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface , and the subject , of course , of course , is usability .
usability always means , how can i achieve a certain target , or how can a user , in a certain context , enable a very effective , efficient and satisfying goal ?
that &apos;s what the norm says .
how can i make something possible to use ?
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens are going to have to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
can i use that directly , or do i need a manual , or do i need to have a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing it differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better to do it .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at some of the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive , or not usable , in many areas or i-phone , although it &apos;s already far more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability has not only been a fundamental economic factor since apple , a fundamental success factor , if i want to use technology devices to people .
why ?
because , in general , through this new kind of usability , the natural user is on average , five times faster on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , it takes five hours and this new kind of natural software only an hour .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you can probably go home for four hours , but your employer , or anyone , is going to fall into the process of doing it for the four hours .
here &apos;s a picture i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a similar increase in performance for us to achieve certain things .
if we go back to software , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
then the next one , which is already working with a nem neural model , or a mental model , like the software says eergonoma , you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to use the computer .
so not anymore zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it much more user-friendly , but , of course , it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user interface is already working a lot more on behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape the behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that i suddenly look increasingly unimportant for success , and the usability is becoming an application .
and then , if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i go by voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and not by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and during the 50th years in the process of establishing our rule , they have been forced to move in settlements .
but that also leads me back to the point where things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to go back and punish my little friend here , and look , what does that mean from the point of view of cognition , when is something really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always intuitive for us humans when i have to think about it a little bit .
so , apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he wants to make it simple in proportion .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
so , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a shape .
that is , i can transmit an intuitive human action model to a software and make the software much more user-friendly .
and of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve already proven it .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this old man &apos;s grandfather refused to refuse .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it &apos;s for orientation , selective , informed , transaction .
that &apos;s what each of you is doing all the time , but it &apos;s doing it unconsciously , and it &apos;s kind of intuitively , or partly instinctively .
the model is already being exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works in the world at a young and old age , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit turns out to be about 50 to 70-odd times as many of us ever after activity , so in the sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s then less often punished than the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , translate it into an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , sort of like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of usage friendliness than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer this now , for example , in which i &apos;m orienting as a supervision , selecting as a choice , informed in the case , it &apos;s big to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction means i can also throw it somewhere or send somebody or shop and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
the family who was scared of his life took all the weapons and all the tools .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten a cake .
oversight : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , able to zoom out , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , and i can now filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the chocolate thing .
and suddenly , i have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than if you can make these things available on hierarchical websites or other mechanisms .
it &apos;s the symbol of what we are , and what we &apos;re capable of as an astonishingly knowledgeable species .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to close with a and give the clue , designers also have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to help you with a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first thing , when you &apos;re a kid , when you &apos;re a baby , is that you take care of what kind of divorce you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and grab more or less in the pottery , the more , so , of course , your curiosity is being woven .
and the curiosity can &apos;t learn .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it for their advantage .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically this whole environmental discussion , global decline , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point in this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , you give plates of magnitude about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphe mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
if we actually don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it away .
the glides of their sled were originally made from fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
what &apos;s amazing about this is that we &apos;re looking at something that &apos;s actually understanding ourselves , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we &apos;ve only got phosphorus for two years , and now , through the phosphorus mining of the world , there &apos;s a lot more uranium in the environment than there is in all the nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium have been dispersed on our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little less harmful .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the hurricane .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , consume less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
this is like , if i were to say , shake your child , just beat it three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think that way from the weighs to the bathtub , our whole earth will be a cemetery .
that &apos;s why you think of weighing to weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or also figuring out the square meter .
he came out , he tucked his pants out of seaweed , and he defeated his hand , and as the feces began to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
that is , we lose in the ground about five thousand times more than we &apos;re being reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem .
and everything is packaged or content .
in openbach , for example , the house garbage is 20 percent of the garbage in between wind .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger than that .
that &apos;s kind of all of them in the precipice phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
this is balanced in china in a second .
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalian knife , and when it was completely frozen , he was amazed by a dog .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these wind ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
let me tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement to the pigs over the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so that &apos;s not what men can be pigs .
because that &apos;s the evidence , right ?
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
he contains the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sleeve , put a different dog on the front of the ice sheet with the fecalian knife on the belt .
and if you tell the people that if you talk to the people , if you say that &apos;s better , you &apos;re not there , they get refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , so far as they are vegetarians .
that means that ants weigh a lot more than we do .
and because they work much harder , physically than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in the energy consumption , a little bit of 30 billion people .
so you can do something from nothing .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are , what we really wanted to do , and how sad we are , that we are at all on earth , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , up to 40 , you want to be climate-eutral here , right ?
you can only be climate-eutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only opportunity .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be dumb as trees , right ?
yes ?
no tree is carbon neutral .
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem in trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
you &apos;ve heard about this before in terms of overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be dumb as trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back in circles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about it .
so we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-land building , no bioland , no natural et progression , and as they all call it , that allow our own excrement to go back .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april 1999 the full control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
we &apos;re too many of them .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , it &apos;s the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
it &apos;s our new home country called nunavut .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
very directly , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a night pot is still called honey potatoes , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
and just as the biosphere was deployed a lot , it happened with the ethnosphere -- just at a greater speed .
that is , the whole western civilization-history is that the city has always taken over , but never given back to the farmers .
and so the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers were going into the cities , and the cities had to continue to get their nutrients away .
that &apos;s why all western rich people have always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
it &apos;s an independent area . you control all the minerals .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to get a fragile civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for food to stay until you look for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and to take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat , not for the nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
in fact , the nice thing is , if you do that , which is to make agriculture , you create biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , a farmer can produce about a thousand-thousand-dollar farm and wait for chickens and pigs and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate goes back over nine percent in favelas .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve revival with its residents .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that is , the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 , in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw a liter of aldaughty in , and then the facility would be ruined over the years .
don &apos;t happen .
that is , we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not at all distant .
that is , we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something from that , you write down , in germany , the best way to do it is to have all the clarity facilities in france .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the frankfurters a little bit .
because the france facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and he &apos;s got to go back .
we see that as phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s very successful .
we &apos;ve been using in holland for three years now .
the dutch government explained that they will be the first country in the world , which regains phosphorus .
but we need it all together .
they &apos;re someone &apos;s home countries .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the phosphorus incident in the world .
there &apos;s opec a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six hundred countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and the oil is going to be replaced by other energy carriers .
but you &apos;re not going to be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , it &apos;s about doing something right .
and most of all , i think , is asking what the right thing is .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
yes ?
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
imagine if , for example , your wife is sad when you annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really effective , yes ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
here .
it &apos;s not really scientific , because we don &apos;t know how much kissing is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this lighting , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful about life is not efficient .
that &apos;s not resource efficiency , it &apos;s efficiency .
what we &apos;re ultimately trying to do at national geographic is we think politicians never do anything .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sludge a little bit better and recharge it , and in the burning facility to lose all the materials for cycles , but first to ask , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with open flavor and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with someone , efficient ?
yes ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics are not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world , and our website is getting 35 million hits every month .
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding .
all the environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , the throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
at every point where you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities for life .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a garbage problem .
as we think from the north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
156 nations send our tv channel .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is staying in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do with your wife ?
what do you say ?
sustainable .
then i say , heartfelt , yes ?
our magazines are read by millions .
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , losing , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy the people in the high bow pouring out coke can from the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of requadruple behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
we &apos;ve developed , for example , an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
and we do a series of trips to the ethnosphere where we take our audiences to places of such cultural wonder that they are blinded by the blessed , and hopefully , one after the other , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our shared well-being .
in two hours , it &apos;s degrading everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that is , we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not everything is supposed to be composable , of course .
no biologist would , for example , claim that 50 percent or more of all species are just before extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is hardly anything that is known to us as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
a television or a washing machine that you use , you don &apos;t use it .
just the things that veile , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , that have to be that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just being used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
yes ?
thank you .
for example , the sneaker , yes ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company now make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things freely off .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we &apos;re realizing what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in there .
it &apos;s all in it that &apos;s useful .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve been able to do microsoft as part of an overtake exactly a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either local or remove with vast amounts of visual data .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian pile , and the rubber can go in biological circles , right ?
all of these are composable of them .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for obesity , for nike , for hennes , for mauritz , and for the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they &apos;re helping , they &apos;re asking people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve already shifted the chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they &apos;re really staying here .
so , help me a little bit .
but it goes .
we see lots and lots of gigabytes here on digital photos that you can get seamlessly and continuously , turning , rearranging in any way .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s what &apos;s going on .
we can do things now so that , if you &apos;re concealing , if you &apos;re broken , you can do things in biological circles .
technical circles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , which is made to go back into the circulation .
and that too , so in every store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
do you remember the wink again ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
if the waste is right now .
all over the place , these winds are around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s in front of the deponia , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside that they can actually go back to cellulosic basis , then you can plant a baby in israel , or in tunisia , hundreds of trees .
yes ?
just when you take these winds , you shrink them , sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
it &apos;s sort of a behavioral poop print .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a field of 300 megapixels .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute to do this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there now , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra bond for cradle to cradle , where everyone can join in .
so not saving , losing , avoiding , reducing , not managing guilt , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
thank you .
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that can restrict the power of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any given moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
the work of the interpreter .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i &apos;m an interpreter , a translator , so in the english word sense , understand .
interprets are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just translate the word for word into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and word curriculum , so that it makes a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already translating from german into english can require more knowledge , because if you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , first of all , i just have the written notes .
you think the composer has written in the grades exactly everything he &apos;s imagined .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
these grades are about as accurate or unprecisely as a verbal , although they seem to be very precise , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the fragrance of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is not to be able to hear the saddle of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpreter has to translate these unprecedented fears of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to translate to a verbal language , what i would like to do otherwise , which is interpret , again .
so basically , a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be important for me to translate the translation of the translation .
so the music , for me , works a bit like spoken language .
the noted notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read grades , and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
because that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
this is bleak house of thickens . every column is a chapter .
you can only see the meaning of the letters if you can tell the language .
so for the learning process of music language , you need at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a review of whether you learn it for the use of dogs , just passively understands it , or you can talk actively , to the musical mother language .
the interpreter &apos;s work starts like a theater director &apos;s work .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re thrilled to do a research on the back of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he &apos;s composed before and after .
you do comparison .
the causes of writing it .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , and it &apos;s not a picture , we can do something like this , to really show that this is a real representation of the text and not a picture .
how did he feel ?
what were his circumstances , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think in that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , you also have , as an interpreter , a rich knowledge to make the composer you play more and more often , and it makes you easier and easier to think into it and feel .
the composer becomes more and more of the friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece is becoming more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now , because the notes are anything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but just a framework , i &apos;m going to turn this framework back to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework ?
i play out what these sounds might mean .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what you might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own right now , personally .
it &apos;s got to be coherent for me in this room and now , or else i can &apos;t convince my audience that that &apos;s my cause .
and the key indicator is the extinction of languages .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve worked as long in advance as i &apos;ve experienced new experience .
how to reexperience a happy new day and again , despite the same rituals of life , get up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same piece over and over and over again to the new .
i went back to a day that switched seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i perceive the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also influences my composition experience .
it &apos;s wonderful when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
and then the same thing happens in a good , appropriate conversation .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
you bring in a new idea , and that &apos;s how it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we haven &apos;t tried to do , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have experienced the way the music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play as i am at that moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i do it in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and therefore , on my palette of music sound , i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , emotions and emotions than today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw some color pots out , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jzurgen ude , a well-known beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music school here in stuttgart .
this is a realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
unfortunately , i was way too young so that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was already on his classes .
i was 17 when i went back to one of his courses and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , which is a late piece .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballad was for me .
this is such a commissioned part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
there he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because to me , it means memory .
he was already in his 60s .
every big picture is the beginning of a chunk .
well , with seventh ten , you have dreams , but you don &apos;t have any significant memories .
i &apos;m playing the piece every few years , and it &apos;s always changed for me , although not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i read something new over and over again .
one example of this from a completely different area : monet has painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the seeroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they did at that moment on him .
his personal impressions of seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
by now , i &apos;m older than a chopin with two thirties years old when he wrote the piece .
he lived only ninety-three years .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
and it &apos;s important for me to keep looking at the notes , even though i mean being able to memorize them .
to keep a twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said , you know , you need about as long as the spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
when all the fingers are in time , and right , as they &apos;re moving in the notes , the sounds come out that sound like music together .
we also did something about the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
if that happens freely , the student gets the next difficult piece .
interpretation is barely spoken in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s presto on the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
and loud and rough signs , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you put these anxiety , it still remains just a little bit technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
we &apos;ve designed a wrong ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal display , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
and that is that to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend to do it themselves .
this is like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then it &apos;s about another possibility , which is to make it sound .
people who have never been singing have never felt instantly with their own body , as it is to make a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and our feet to dance .
so the hammerheads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
the melody comes out of the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the continuous coverage of music today is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music for yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every single music is made up when you &apos;re constantly being complained by the outside with music .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask you , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because you haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
in both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to figure out if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that put the vocal chords right .
because you can train that .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
or c , because they were complained that they were intractable .
so i ask , how skillfully competent was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as you say today , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can reverse them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a pointless candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and i answer that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
and this really raises these ideas to create these limitations for the available place on the screen .
because i don &apos;t think it says , i don &apos;t know if it tastes to me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t give up food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether you like it or not .
whether the music is too much for you or too sweet .
tell me what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want some more spices there , or they even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
an artwork you never look at doesn &apos;t have a force to work .
we hope that this doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef must be eaten and not just looked at or exchanged recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where adults make active music , or at least listen to music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
can you play them in blue ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , instead of having a red flower now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different than before .
so this was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to interpretation .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
of course , the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
by now , the instruments have evolved .
there was no piano at the moment as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sound possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now make the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t make .
you know , beethoven also knows that he heard more than he had already become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play anything that an orchestra has rejected from then as unplayable .
so the composers depend on us on interprets that reinvent the pieces again .
so that they become audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and also , what you would think of today in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to contribute to this area as well .
or what i want to do today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been envy ?
and how did that feel ?
shit .
i have a friend who &apos;s driving a passerver .
and when i get there , with my little v w piesel and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
i say , ulf , what do you need so big car ?
but these are all the streets in the u.s.a .
i mean , that loses half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than i did .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i come to mind immediately , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to just make such uncomfortable feelings as envy to disappear .
you can also try that in words like revenge or profit or something like that .
i want to explain to you something about this mechanism today , or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say no one has the intention to build a wall .
there &apos;s a confusion on the top of nasa &apos;s penetrable image .
and then dooring stones so that he &apos;s clogging them out of sight .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with deceiving themselves .
they need this lie to sustain a life lie to self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , examine or even drop .
they need time .
from that time , an anecdote , which you may know .
now let &apos;s pull out something else .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso says , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you see how important this lie is and how much time it takes you to learn something that artists can share very well with us .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist tells you something , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see , if she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is sharing with you something like this , which you get familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then that unpleasant feeling disappears , and you couldn &apos;t see it similar , and you get more and more like that .
here they have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
this is actually live on the internet . you can check it out .
and not only in art , even in the folk plate , in mythology , it appears again in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from this true background , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , can &apos;t come from this true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do under politically correctness , is to bring it back and forth .
we need this lie at this point that sustains us deception without which we can &apos;t even live .
we have not only in art , in the people &apos;s poetry , but also in science , great lies like this .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and human ancestry .
that the man should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , this is probably not true what charles wrote .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , we have to stop people from getting knowledge from it .
why do we need to prevent people from getting knowledge from something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that life lie .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descent from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something as an organism that still exists , a stone comparable , and otherwise what things , that is unsustainable to us .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at the university of washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism resolves and what the traces that it leaves behind that lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to bring you to another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came to school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she was telling a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , which is a very good collaboration .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . something &apos;s wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral judgment uses the word &quot; word because , &quot; we should try to replace it by the word , although replacing it .
if you do that , and then you learn the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that that &apos;s the real truth behind the origin .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in the fire deletion .
he &apos;s interested in fire .
but there are no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to do fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
there he was signing up .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t say to your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and enjoy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others are creating when they &apos;re putting fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that in the heart of the bub , he already knew that he was actually related to the fire , but he can &apos;t say that out loud .
now , a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious that jumps right away , without being able to do anything about it , and the things that you know look very different , so you can sound much better for you and others .
so it &apos;s just how we create these words that we use over and over again in the language of politically correct speech .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and have this experience of multiple resolution .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
after what logic of this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than what we actually know in the unconscious that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
so i want to present to you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example requires what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what &apos;s the soul ?
the soul is such a spiritual thing , says about leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not stop-cloth , material nature .
and if you have people who have the strong belief that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought to life by the soul , they think that &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not made of matter , they &apos;re just made of meat and blood , something stone , to the earth , to a delicate , delicate , unimportant , yes dead .
and now , from this soul , you think that you &apos;re kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this magnificent nature , anima is in the latin , the air tuna .
but the spatial orientation of the images is actually important here .
and then when this trap of air poisons over humans , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , just with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is necessarily present for our lives .
and if you have this premise , you understand the logic with which we experience this happiness to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three of you still know from school .
now this is a three-sentence that describes us a logic .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
the computer vision-algorithms have captured these images together so that they can match the real space , where these images , all of which are made near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you see here elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things have all been spatially related .
here you need some logic , but you also need the willingness to lie .
namely , lying like this , you can just use this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences are occurring .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted him in particular here .
a third sentence , which appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of soul .
they say , who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything at all .
and here you feel it .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say the kanzler is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statement about what &apos;s true .
i can say anything .
there are some that are much more spatial .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deception feels immediately , you can do something about it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assured .
because , in fact , we would have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic that it &apos;s easy to use , that two sentences are logically correct and a third that looks like it &apos;s got something to do with it , so we can save our livestock .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
i &apos;d like to show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we first worked on in the summer to show you what i think is really the punch behind this technology , the photosynth technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daily newspapers .
now , you have to think of another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy , present .
that has to do with us going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the burian esel is named .
the burian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact one in the middle between two equal hairs , it &apos;s starved .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how natural things are presented .
same big forces with the anticipal signs resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on .
it &apos;s only when you give another example , so if you make a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
automatically , he goes to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that somehow you &apos;re driven in nature , you &apos;re determined by the larger pile that attracts you immediately , you also quickly have the feeling that there must be something like free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer says , there &apos;s no freedom of will .
now we can make the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame who was only on the computer with images of flickr . just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;ll get pictures of men in t-shirts and on the university site and so on . each of these orange cone reviews a picture that was discovered as this model .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper , almost every day , is what you find in this third sentence .
it looks something like who has no freedom of will can &apos;t be drawn for his actions and claims for responsibility , and therefore it &apos;s inadequate .
again , here you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove that there &apos;s something like freedom of will .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of the beginning is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , when you meet a human being , which you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all spatially related to each other .
you know , there are no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience one that , of course , is such a predictive , that you can &apos;t prove .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making it clear that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictants , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he &apos;s led them to a herring where he doesn &apos;t even hold himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of the burden of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the magnificity of lying .
and once again , once again , if you have a way to feel that three-sentence in other people , do it , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember them in that way in your self-lie .
and we can navigate this very simple way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the perpetrators here of this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give me my idea .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
i have to say , you know , you got it , i got it hard to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might like to introduce my island project that i &apos;m trying to imagine you .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been sucking for this bad oil image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in carlsruh , technical college , i think , today , is kit .
and then i went to berlin in the middle of the &apos; 80s , because i wanted to do renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t exist in karlsruh .
there was a nuclear research facility called leopoldshafen .
you know , i never believed i was going to end up working at microsoft .
it was all called kfa at the time , even the jewish name of kfa .
they &apos;re now called project carriers .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but something like a solar pendulum that kind of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything was bad on the left .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the early &apos; 80s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in clubs in the multiplicity , where you would expect evil .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called the knew dronics and made wind and sunenergy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve lived through .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
i worked for 11 years in the collective , which was base democratic .
we were 20 people .
if one didn &apos;t say no , the vetoprinzip , it &apos;s totally crashed you . i &apos;ve been very hard to tell for 10 years if i &apos;ve been wasting my great engineering , maybe really to a devastating thing , because also all my father &apos;s colleagues have always been talking to him , you &apos;ve been throwing out the money to the window in your kid .
it &apos;s going to be about insane .
and this was really , really bitter , and you get into this kind of phase , and you get a picture where i went through , where i wondered , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow was still , baseline , longevity in the collective , of course , if this is supposed to be the great thing .
and then i stopped it up to six hundred , and then , along with friends , i became a co-founder of the solon company , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge success story , but we have , of course , the problem of a growing company , and then we have a two-thousand-six , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next issue of the future , and that is , i think , in my mind , and our mind , it &apos;s kind of crazy again , that starts again , that people say , what &apos;s the rubbish , it &apos;s all wrong , we &apos;re not talking about stores .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce to you now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get a hundred percent renewable .
and we just started asking a relatively simple , crazy story , where could you use a memory of meaningfully today ?
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : everything is in the process , from the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been flipped together in this environment .
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a 15 percent renewable rate of energy today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when you build more wind force together , the system starts to fail .
i always tell the politicians that they occupy in berlin adlershof our facility .
they always say , why ?
we already have 20 percent in germany .
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our network is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island have .
the question was simple , calculated that was a two-thousandth of 2006 , started the first contact with the island , just did the math .
how big a battery would you actually have to be to get an island like that on 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go back to another slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electric power are built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very quick to go anywhere .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s going on is deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the process , three of the wheels are always waited .
yes , that &apos;s how one sees that down there is the load .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system or a system , which can only feed in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the diesel is going to be back-up , and the wind , and the sun is going to use the load so that they can map the larger percentage .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy , which is energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off the oil .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can sort of take over the entire grid .
of course , you can only be manned here in some way .
no one in the world has done that .
that &apos;s in a small way , so you can also use your shaper in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what do you actually do research in adlershof ?
that &apos;s really what it is .
but if you want to put together several of these interactors , and you want them to build a web , it becomes extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get up to 70-odd percent renewables , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you do it from batteries .
that &apos;s certainly going to be an energy carrier , which is then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know or shit , that &apos;s going to be it .
you have to go to a season memory , and winter summer , and not just tag night .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was really recorded .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stink electrochemical battery .
how far do you get ?
and then did a whole bunch of simulations .
and they simulated wind and sun and the load , and they came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that if you look at the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , you get out at about 40 cents per kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
if you &apos;re great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanes .
what would everything have to be done ?
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
have negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social sheep .
we were only five people then to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the picture again .
the brown is sort of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which the electric company on the island , has meant that &apos;s what we think is great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t think you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical conditions of the island one to three very precisely .
that is , we went to look for the largest battery in the world .
here it is .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . we &apos;re now collecting data from all -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
it comes from asia , naturally , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt of performance , and it can do that for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we &apos;ve sort of gotten out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , bringing it into the hall , actually , the entire dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall it &apos;s now looking like this , and there &apos;s the back of the line , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s the whole thing that we &apos;re simulating the net with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of cable physics , to sort of map the vibration behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
here &apos;s another one that we see here , again , the diesel , again , the whole aggregate .
all these photos are connected , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
and what we &apos;ve been doing since the last two thousand was completing the hall , until today , two-thousandth of what was going on between the individual system of electronics , of developing software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the battery and the subject of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate , of course , to the battery , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing is , on this island , you can basically do everything that we can do today with problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to move back and forth at the moment , how is it going to go , for example , on the island , we have five to 30 percent excess energy , so we have to defend the wind and the sun .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture can access the material world .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , around , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
you can do it through n smart-grid , you can build the nets , yes , you should do it anyway , listen to the percentage , but you will never be able to get rid of memory completely .
you get a model that comes from all over the earth .
and that &apos;s the message , you know .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the oil , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just loud rotating masses of big power plants , where the wave is always all around europe .
we look in this web , we see the 50 hertz , and when it turns nine , when it turns nine , we catch some valves , we go back to a little bit of a merh steam , we come back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible returns .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
and in time , you can react to other things again .
think of this as the continuation of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn out two milliseconds with this big battery .
you can see what are the enormous possibilities of speed there .
and the message is , we need to get these rotating masses , if we sort of get our goals 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run just means that the power plant is running along to keep the frequency .
yes , this is a huge debate at the moment , building coal-fired plants , because we don &apos;t , or gastorbines , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also bringing electrochemical memory into the web .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now as well .
and for that purpose , people always come and look at our test , sort of , on our island test .
and that &apos;s something that grows through the complexity that people use , and that uses the user to get bigger and bigger and bigger .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you do a bit of a far future there ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
if you don &apos;t , you know , you &apos;ve got a wax , you &apos;ve got a child &apos;s toy , you &apos;ve never calculated .
we now have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany .
that &apos;s role models .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity for electrochemical stores all over the world .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s very simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is that i &apos;ve actually experienced in the last two years , the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , also to climb 10 megawatt-battery to the german net .
their own photos are being covered with metadata that another person has entered .
this is going to happen next april .
so from that , you also see that there &apos;s a change there , and from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , that &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far , in discussions , these insulaners , they &apos;re always doing autark , they have their own little web , which has nothing to do with our interconnectedness .
the question is , if you &apos;re completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out anywhere in the world and taken to you , you &apos;re an island .
then they only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a sensible energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we get , the talk of premium cola is that you can be a collective and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and all right , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be quiet and have a vision .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
when someone has been struggling and described all these sacred people and shared who they are , my photo of the emergenre dam cathedral is suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , using photos of other people , and therefore making a kind of cross-boring model of social experience with other vendors .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist the los angeles times , went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steve &apos;s article , later on , a book that was filmed , with robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx , as nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrast who studied at juilliard-conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically ending through his paranoid schizophrenia early .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steve &apos;s book or look at the movie , so that you can understand not only the wonderful connection that came from these two men , but also how the music helped make that connection , and how it was when that word game was allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demo by beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and came behind the stage to imagine me .
he spoke in a very hotter and social note about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and that &apos;s all because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in my tutoring .
and of course , byproduct of all of these are the immense , rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been given through exaggeration or satellite images and so on , but through collective memory .
i have to mention that nathaniel had a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s particularly vulnerable now to these schizophrenic phases , which are sometimes so bad , and he disappears for days , wandering around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and torture source of his own mind .
and in the same kind of mature stage , nathaniel was when we started our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this insane flipper in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was scared , not meant , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his conditions , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin , if i started talking about scale and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardens .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that there was a complete change in nathanite &apos;s eyes .
it was as if he was in the influence of an invisible drug , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
thank you .
and like a miracle , he took his violin , and he started playing some clips of violin concert , and then he asked me to end them : mendelsson , tshaikowski , sibelius .
so we started talking about music from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka to salons .
and i realized that , not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also connected a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i otherwise only know about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , from this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a lover , educated , skilled musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
i understood that this is exactly the nature of art .
you know . do i get it right ? your software enables you to , over the next few years , all the images that are being used together by someone in the world , basically connected ?
this is why we make music : so that we can create something that is inside of all of us , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches us all , and moves , inspired and united .
what nathaniel did was he brought the music back into a community of friends .
the redemption power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and took care of him .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i &apos;d like to play something that i have stolen the cellist , unfortunately .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discovery .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , rich , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could talk at an event about the sustainability of the farm .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
if you want it to create hyperlinks between the images .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem for our chefs has become . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tunas , the healing butte , the smiling , swordfish , they have collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , i think or evil aquaculture , fishing construction , will be part of our future .
many arguments against it . fishing facilities are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a 15 to one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
not very sustainable .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to get it right .
i wanted to support them .
on the day before the event , i called the ceo of the public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed from our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we are basically a world of our own .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put on .
and that evening , i lay in bed , and i thought , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i telephone with a few people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
let &apos;s call it don .
like when you do a web search for images , where you type sentences and the text of the website contains a lot of information about which image that is .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
i fell in love with this fish .
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous enjoyer and a good person .
this is actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , i swear to god who &apos;s been looking for chicken after this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way you get to know your fish , you love the fish the more .
i first eaten him in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost gloomy white color .
the chef had cooked him .
then the scale of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , he &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least the way you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river , guadalquir .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . congratulations .
they grew meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by taking the land away .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
they literally moved the lever .
thank you very much .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- barsch , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and in the process , miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they &apos;re staring out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is fluid channels and those density , lush march .
i was there not a long time ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin , and part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we were fighting through the wetlands , and i was keen and sweating , and i have mud up to my knees , and miguel is quietly giving a biology lecture .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glider .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try and make some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more talk about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , which was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had in the morning .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how does your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
now , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat , what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-replicating .
there &apos;s no food .
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
the official dogma of what ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i had ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage shift .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pinker flamingos , a literally pink carpet is enough to reach the eye .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
and of those 6,000 languages today , while we &apos;re sitting here in monterey , half of them are not whispering into the ears of children .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was totally confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you throw your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
official faith from all western industrialized societies .
well , last year on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-flourishing bird population not the last one you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat shrimp .
shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly the better the system . &quot;
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
the official dogma works like this : when our goal is to maximize the well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s all about maximizing the freedom of the individual .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there in the first place .
they breed in a city 140 kilometers away , where the ground nature is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the contested white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of trip to the penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , are you flying 240 miles to the farm , and then you fly back at night ?
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
and the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , a irreducible premise for the human .
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . they do that because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this biting , coated flavor .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite off the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
it &apos;s the last defense before something goes into the body .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good , and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s evolved over evolution to look at uncleaners . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any uncleaners . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success on its predators &apos; success .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any uncleaned , it drives enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquir .
it &apos;s a river that involves all these things , of which rivers today tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and it leaves the water cleaner than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only a farm that feeds its animals , not only a farm that measures its success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but also for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and you should do that , because this love story , as romantic as it is , is also pervasive .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re enjoying . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that make good food safe the future , somebody stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just one .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common they have .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crawling inequalities in distribution , not total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question , because it &apos;s the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of plant food , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the legacy . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call them what they are , a commercial in the field , a commercial that quickly ecological capital , which enables that production to happen .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of the degradation , but because of the degrading resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
you want to feed the world ?
this is , i think , so deeply in our water supply , that it would not come to mind to question it .
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it has never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s the one that goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds , businesses that are restoring instead of using up , businesses that are growing extensively , rather than just intensely , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
because they are the people who are also experts for taste .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i will ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to get you to one thing today is that the sum of the data that we consume is larger than the sum of its parts , and rather than thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information to create patterns , and we can see trends that would otherwise not be visible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram of age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and i immediately see another pattern that emerges .
and that is , because in the middle section here , people are the most active , and they are the most fragile over here .
we can go one step further and rearrange the data and see that circular diseases and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
now , as we go on and we sort for age , let &apos;s say 40 years , or younger , we see that accidents are even the main thing that people should be worried about .
and if you look at research , it &apos;s particularly true in men .
so you realize that looking at information and data in this way reminds you of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover images of every single sports illustrated ever printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your room .
you can dive into a decade with pivot .
you can dive into a particular year .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
this is my supermarket . it &apos;s not a big one .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , which is where all the expenses that lance armstrong shows me .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with bike driving ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to step back and i &apos;m going to go back to the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t look or you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
they &apos;re no longer taught to little kids . that is , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaseite and reduced it to a small summary .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the government issue .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediakatories that are most covering time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipediaseite .
that &apos;s just to see when you step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at a particular one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and all see together .
now when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music sector .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essig that you could buy to make a large number of salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 is right in the store for you .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so now we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not only from page to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zooming technology to every single website like this .
so i can step back and jump directly to a specific section .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , all the internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my trajectory in a certain time frame .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to here .
so this is how the supermarket is .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , maybe i can rearrange my trajectory for my search past . here , i &apos;ve looked for nepotistic , here for bing , or here for live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the side and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the file .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information flow .
we talk about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so instead of always going from one to the other , we start to be able to go from many things , and by seeing patterns which other things would have remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then this data trap , maybe a new source of information will make sense .
and , instead of just moving in information , we can get knowledge from it .
and then they go to the consumer electronics store to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and if we know , maybe we can even pull wisdom from that .
so i stop that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a heard portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i went to school with the bus every day , an hour per track .
and my nose was always in a book , a science-fiction book that sparked my thoughts in other worlds , and in a narrative , my deep sitting in me was satisfied by insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also turned out that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would travel through the forests and collect samples and frogs and snakes and beetles and pond water , i would bring everything home and look under the microscope .
i was totally enthusiastic , you know .
it was always about trying to understand the world and to explore the boundaries of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
jacques cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
i think that &apos;s been very good at that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this oversaturation with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the screen in our heads .
my reaction was to draw and paint aliens , aliens worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook .
creativity had to somehow get out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
i certainly would never achieve an alien world with a spaceship , and that seemed pretty unlikely to me .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
but here was a world that i could actually enter here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all the things that i had always imagined when i read these books .
so , when i was 15 , i decided to get diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t discourage from that .
i annoyed my father until he finally made a submersible school in buffalo , new york , on the other side of the border , where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years since then , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of this in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat oceans , is so rich in fascinating life , as we can really hardly imagine .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know any boundaries , as opposed to our own , bright human imagination .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
until today , i feel the deepest awe of what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean stops with the same intensity as ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was doing a filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was always drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together , and that fits together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area , &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions were kind of intertwined .
something interesting happened at &quot; abyss &quot; : in order to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took back on computer-generated animation , cg .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone that you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surface-figure to ever see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in money , and in fact , he was playing his production costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went off .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , famously advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , it &apos;s got to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy , and the success depended on how this effect would happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve already played a little bit more money with the movie .
from these two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at that time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip over the phase of analogy with optical printers and so on , and start with digital productions .
and then we did that , and we got a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that we were actually starting the creature- and more design -- which we had actually started the company -- too slowly .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to be the measurement of visual effects and computer-generated effects throughout new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made by cg , and the main characters were supposed to be cg , and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was pretty much pushing back , and people in my company told me that we were not preliminary yet able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship , which goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love movie of epic dimensions , a passionate film .
but secretly , i wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
this is incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketer for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , being one of the last of your people who speak your language , have no way of passing the wisdom of the ancestors , or expecting the hope of children ?
sounds crazy . but this goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four miles below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bullshell .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
and the preparation for this was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
these days are over .
and i noticed how much these deep seaweed gears , like a space mission .
well , they were also high-tech and endured extensive planning .
you get into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t create it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like i &apos;m in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was quite obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science . it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect for , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before , and for the science at the time when we saw it , i had not found words .
we now have almost an infinite range of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
so i was really upset by this , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we went to the bismarck , and we studied them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it . so we developed the technology that we needed .
well , i &apos;m sitting there , on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are quite similar to these brakes , and i know that once the band was playing there .
and i fly through the gear of the ship with a little robotic experience .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
i &apos;m actually just doing it , but my consciousness is inside the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically present within the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjesse vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner each , i always knew what was going to happen in the light cone of the vehicle , because i walked over the movie set for months when we made the movie .
the set was actually an accurate copy of the blueprint of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize that this telepresence experience , that you use robotic avatars like this , and so you can put your consciousness in the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to study or do other things , in all sorts of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we really began to learn what we had seen down there , for example , these deep sea waves , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals . these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
they live with chemosynthesis .
my favorite is the one in the middle -- mp3 players , nas-hair-trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in the nasa expertise council and plan for real space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the mission of biomedical protocol , and they go around and around and around , and they fly to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it turned out that i took space scientists into the deep sea with us .
i took them , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in these extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we made documentary films , but actually , science , more specifically , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation to reality .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business yet , you can be sure you &apos;re going to do it soon .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you &apos;re thinking a director has to be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand a lot of leadership before i came up with these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going on ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . we &apos;re not going to play any trace .
everybody thinks i &apos;d run away from &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and i would have celebrated the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary movies , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
you do it for the task , for the challenge , and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is . you do it for the discovery , and because of the odd connection that emerges when a small group of people form a team .
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
because we &apos;ve done all this with only 10 to 12 people who have been working uninterrupted for years , and sometimes we &apos;ve been on lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the contempt that you have in front of each other , because you have a task that you can &apos;t explain to other .
if you go back to land and say , &quot; we &apos;ve had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around , all the technology , and all the difficulty , all the human capacity , if you &apos;re working on the lake , &quot; you can &apos;t explain the other person . it &apos;s like policemen , or soldiers , who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you deserve yourself in the opposite direction of the respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so again , i stood on a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
a tremendous challenge .
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and that changed my way of making films , completely .
there were people who thought we had really taken these oceans and transported them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more a fundamental way of doing my job , the actual process that changed .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons have we learned ?
i think the first thing is the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human trait .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the contempt of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
to me , young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how to do this . &quot;
the answer is no .
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
get that to others . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet against yourself , but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art , and in exploring , failing has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a trust proposition .
no important endeavor that demanded innovation was ever done without risk .
you have to be prepared to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is really an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a little bit surprising , because my full-time job at the foundation is mainly about vaccines and seeds , about the things we need to invent and deliver to allow the poorest two billion to live a better life .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , actually more important than any other person on the planet .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
climate change decrease means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years , and we &apos;re going to rain too much or too little , and things are going to change the way it can &apos;t sustain their fragile environment .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to riots .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important for them .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , the poverty reduction of energy would be far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy progress .
the coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price half -- we &apos;re going to meet a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
co2 warms the planet , and co2 equation is actually pretty clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the exhaust of co2 that leads to the temperature increase , and that temperature increase has some very negative consequences , effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems cannot adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact relationship between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really need to get down to zero ?
and yet , this horrible fate is actually happening to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly man dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language into the grave .
isn &apos;t half the way or a quarter ? &quot;
and the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that needs to be under a three-meter bridge , and you can kind of squeeze that underneath .
this has to go to the bottom , to zero .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
well , we &apos;re making a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we need to bring about changes that are going down to zero .
it &apos;s been increasing constant .
only different economic changes have affected it at all , and we have to go from rapid to reducing and reducing to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on average , on the services that every human is using , on average , the average energy on every service and co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor of one , and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s going to go to nine billion . it &apos;s going to move to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make disputes and use less , but on average , this number is going to increase every year , and therefore double more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
here &apos;s a very fundamental service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
a has these benefits and risks .
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school problems under the street light .
now , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through different types of autotypes , through new ways of building houses , there are a lot of services whose energy supply of some individual services is decreased by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get that to zero ?
if you burn coal , no .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing technique for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
usually you &apos;re just standing next to it , and some of them are coming , some of them don &apos;t .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i actually get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
i came up with this for energy .
i decided that leaving fireflies would be my this year &apos;s contribution to the environment here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
well , there are all kinds of game solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks , and b has those benefits and risks .
we need solutions , either one or more , to have an unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may have a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all five of those , and we can &apos;t give up on all of them because they shy us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimney after the burn , under pressure , and then store somewhere , and hope it &apos;s going to stay there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but get it to 100 percent of the time , and get it very difficult to do , and get a recovery for carbon storation is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the storage question .
who is going to make sure ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times bigger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
so this is a hard nut .
what do you want to do ?
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human contribution , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the garbage ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solved , and that &apos;s why you should work .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically less than the power plants .
these are energy fields , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more surface than a normal power station .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
also , these sources are underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day long , it doesn &apos;t seem to be blowing the wind every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t keep blowing .
so , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big price challenges here . there are challenges in transmission , for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you have to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where it comes from .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : the cars , the computers , the cell phones , the flashlights , for everything . and i &apos;ve done that with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could charge less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
now , where are we going to go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get to the target ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many who are already involved in this ted group .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar technology .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies that do great things and have interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in the nuclear field ; modular , liquid .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who &apos;s not white and likely to be sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are around .
the terrage concept means instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you &apos;ve never been able to do reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right kind of material approach , it looks like it works .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we were all talking only a language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonical .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel fuel .
instead of breaking your head over it , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is being used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a &quot; walking wave reactor . &quot;
that really solves the fuel problem .
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s being burned today , so it &apos;s called the uplifted uranium .
the u.s. drive for hundreds of years .
and if you just film ocean water cheap and easy , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we need to achieve , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
the rest of 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean .
so , in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to getting it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this evidence .
when we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reductions along the way , and the less we emitt , the less the carbon sum is going to be , and the temperature is going to be low .
but actually , this note for the things that we do , which are not completely reducing the big reductions , is just the same , or even less important than the others , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
we have to go through these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilots and regulation changes .
and the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
there are a lot of great books about this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice , &quot; and david mckays &apos;s &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework where this can be discussed broad , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we &apos;re inventing this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , half-energy episode without co2 , i will take that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term thinking is going to be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich country , and almost all of the lives of those two billion are going to be much worse .
so what do we need to do ?
something as profound as our identity is now a matter of choice as to how this slide is supposed to show .
what are i appealing to ?
we need to use more research money .
when countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market travel , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists that we did , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first thing is done , when it goes like this , it &apos;s all clear , because the economic density , the energy density is as different from nuclear energy as we know it .
and to get that right , that means to build deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumerism of uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . today you have to refill the reactor , so there are lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and bring things in -- or out . it &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they bury without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there and burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
a nuclear reactor that even provides a solution to the waste .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our fills , and it dramatically reduces the waste volume during this process .
but while you were talking to different people around the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest of really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet come to a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting epiphany rules for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; -- there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese did something in the direction .
this is a version of one thing that &apos;s been done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built this one , so anyone who has done a fast reactor is a candidate for our first one .
in your mind , time-frame and probability are really going to create something like this ?
that means that every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds of companies that , as well as if their approaches work , can provide the promotion for their pilots .
and it would be best if it could create multiple , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
and the big breakthroughs of the possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : a breakthrough of energy is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as quickly as they could , and then got children as quickly as they could .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type , which seems a little bit difficult , but they might say that over us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as it does , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , plays the potential , so the impact on land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we have to do emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay warming so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get around us .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance , because you might do it lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what they did after that .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you take the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientists : do you have one or two sentences for those to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that change things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have only later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
today everything is easy to have .
but my dream here is that if you can do it economically , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in emitting co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;ll probably accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be their answer to the bjdork lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the poverty reduction , the fight of malaria , and so on , that there &apos;s a dumb waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
it should not suffer other things .
you get too much money , and this is where reasonable people can disagree , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to finance it . for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris you get is a very high energy episode , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
his new masche is now , &quot; why is the research not going to talk about anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his former stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he &apos;s understood that this is a very lonely group , and therefore he &apos;s now bringing the research argument .
let them be maybe . &quot;
and this is a thought process that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i speak for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will come true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams need to build the largest possible free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about a meter of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and , even though it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it &apos;s pushing people together very quickly .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops worldwide with students , developers and architects , even ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep impressions into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
you talk about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and put spaghetti out .
they &apos;re investing a lot of their time in assembly continually growing structures .
and finally , just before you have time , someone takes the marshmallow , and they put it very gently on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but then , almost always , what happens is that the ta-da becomes a uh-oh , because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and fall down .
there are a series of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy doing other things , they &apos;re asking themselves , &quot; should i get married or not ? should i get married now ?
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they really produce drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams that have much more ta-da , and among the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
how peter told us , not only do they produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does that happen ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids are investing in being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
and then realizing it .
should i get married later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and prototype , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair badly prototypes .
constructors see this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with each trial , the kids get instantly feedback , which works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students , half of them , lawyers do a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten kids are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
architects and engineers , fortunately .
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-empowering geometric patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos are a little bit above average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get much better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that happen ?
because they have special skills for processing .
they guide the process , they understand it .
and that team that rules and looks at the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m teaching you , and not getting a good note in my class .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now i tried a little bit more exciting .
i thought , well , let &apos;s get the poker deployment .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize for the winners &apos; software .
what happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
we repeated this practice with the same students .
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
now , what did you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of prototyping .
that &apos;s how the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a shared language , a basic posture , to build the right prototype .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work on the planet every minute from every place -- to the randolph hotel .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows built .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world , how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world records .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it requires that all of us are putting our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our feelings and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
and that can make a big difference .
there &apos;s a corner that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , by the way , where the wireless plan works .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and this is a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve asked my friends a lot recently , and they all wanted to go into the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that you &apos;re sort of drawn to nostalgia , to wonder .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not going to tell you , because i want to use it .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because options on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
and then suddenly you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
this is the greatest time that you &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re building : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heel .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death row .
so what it means to make this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should or shouldn &apos;t work .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that have threatened millions of us only one generation ago , not yet .
diphlet , roman , child paralysis ...
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on the one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and our laptop probably on our lap .
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the successes of the scientific method .
and from my perspective , the scientific way to try things out is to see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all the good news , because there are some other problems , and they were often mentioned .
and one of them is , despite all our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastating this world thoroughly .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of this chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re looking at our child mutilating a football game , we &apos;re also asking ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wishing thinking .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never used scientific progress as much as now , ever .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we are at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment , to find a time when we &apos;ve struggled progress , where we &apos;ve driven these things more fiercely , more fronts than we are now .
people are wrapping themselves up in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
but you know what they &apos;re wrong with ?
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; dancing , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article on vaccination for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , to resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i was doing , i wrote an article and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article on genetically modified food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i wrote an article about it , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were going to move around in a particular way rather than a random way .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be very different to your experience of the football game of your child .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we rich , we go to food , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles made me worried , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and eventually i found it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
we talk about it in a twin way .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a matter of choice .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with little leadership signs about this : &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just name a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challengers , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask the evidence , ask the evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
and i can say , for the reason , that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and i hope we will never see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic with the masers , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were conducted to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bundle of documents from a government attack that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
but you know what ?
so i want to say , there were some choices , but it wasn &apos;t all a matter of choice .
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are decreasing for measures .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened is that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody have masers here ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masers ?
doesn &apos;t happen very often .
it &apos;s not happening in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 per hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem the same , but they &apos;re almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and it &apos;s very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
don &apos;t fear , no source , child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
it &apos;s called paul offit .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
he just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000-, 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop complaining .
and that &apos;s actually what he says .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try and understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
so paul is a terrorist .
if paul speaks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
the answer is yes .
if you keep on taking them , returning the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we now have masers in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , kids will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masers .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said she thought i was a little bit too shrimp .
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate your child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get bad at it .
we didn &apos;t have child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe this morning someone in lagos went on a plane and just flies to los angeles , and right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he ends up and he rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these amazing ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves up in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you to jump .
i know you did that because half of americans do it every day .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t make any difference how often we find out they &apos;re useless .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i &apos;ll totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
an effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed rather than free .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishingly cold and soul to ourselves , who can afford it .
so we go away from this , and where do we go ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , was acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
with so many options that you can choose , people are very difficult to even choose .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any cancer jellyfish who wants to treat his patients with caffe-and-white .
if you go on that path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people , because he insisted that red beds , bones and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can take the course of aids brakes .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in one country that gets worse than any other one of these diseases .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most mindless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study on investing in volunteer aging .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice scorn , every branch of petersilia , every red steel , was changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupee melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more specific . and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
a colleague of mine had access to investment acts of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormonoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
this has nothing to do with science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , dropped the participation by two percent .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work , because we &apos;re afraid of it is a real dead end , and it &apos;s keeping millions of people from blooming .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we are right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
and why ? genetically modified food .
they &apos;re offering 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were just providing five . why ?
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are putting all this in it .
and then people could eat it , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say about this is : why do we fight this ?
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose , to put it on tomorrow .
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
now there are some of us who sort of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; really mean different possibilities of being .
if we don &apos;t do that , if we go on to something that we &apos;re guilty of , i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy of ours , and we really need to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and go into the future ? &quot;
anyway . i certainly want that .
and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
at the moment , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine and we go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , this is something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless they look at it as i am , &quot; a deception that becomes real when someone believes enough of it . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks what &apos;s going on to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , there is , if the patient only believes hard enough , a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
a deception becomes something real , because somebody perceives it that way .
you know , not only does that mean that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , but it also means that making decisions is so hard to miss large investments in their employers .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s been in every magic book for kids since the 1950s .
i learned it from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study ; my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my axe like this .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
so you can see that there &apos;s nothing going on at any time , and as long as i &apos;m pressing here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so solid in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickster , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
i think many of you in this room probably know this trick .
this is how it works .
i hold the knife in my hand .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i &apos;m holding my wrist is because that &apos;s where the real secret of illusion is .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my finger , just from where it was , into a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who had no childhood .
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
so , he &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here , because the mind and the way it process information , doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what it &apos;s about now , and then i open my hand .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my finger , which is now there .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take that hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
this trick you can do to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really really blew me up .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
because what it turns out is , if you offer placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you give the shape in which you give placebo , for example , to change into a smaller pill , and you colored those blue and you put a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more measurably effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out it &apos;s not all .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any form .
a colored capsule , which is on one end yellow and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is , ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape matters .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or the wrong salatdressing .
right ? a syringe with an uneffective -- a few milliliters of an uneffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong image in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our faith in it that makes a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle if you want to go to the thing .
this is a four-inch long hat needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize you a little bit first .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not steam &apos;s special breeding meat .
so this is the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose less possibilities .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
so i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to push it through it , until it &apos;s going to go back on the other side .
if you &apos;re going to be miserable -- if you &apos;re easily falling in power -- i showed this to some friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to be miserable , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first heating part here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my meat starts , at the bottom part of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little einstich .
i &apos;m really sorry . are you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , again .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had in the knife trick .
about it .
and there are several reasons for this .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s probably not so stupid and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself , just to talk to us for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see this . &quot;
people in the side rooms are now coming in .
one of them is required by the great selection of different salatdressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is this imagery has led you to regret the decision , and this regret is a negative effect on the satisfaction that you made from your decision , even if it was a good choice .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can turn this around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look at it .
for example , take this kid from barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they mythologically came up with the milky river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
the people in the back , or the people who see this at some point in the video , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , it would -- look , here &apos;s a hole and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
but i think , in this frame here , and with the intention of a delusion to make something real , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go from the stage .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret at all , that &apos;s disappointing for the choice they make .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i made some people count the number of books that were published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they gave up about 40 , and there was a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happy coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mainly going to be about these cognitive fall .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists thinking about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
second , what economists call oppertunnel costs .
the first of these fall is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a change in experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a questionnaire and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
and then he added , really quite emotionally , which has ruined the whole experience .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we judge things depends on what we compare it to .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it had ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was connected to a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had received .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past , but basically only has the present .
it &apos;s the experience itself that the doctor is addressing -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt if i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and sustains the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel recently ? &quot;
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that exclude them , that makes them less happy with the alternatives that they chose .
these are two very different units , the experience itself and the memory itself , and the two to confuse is part of the breakthrough of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make ourselves tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that what we &apos;re allowed to keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful anymore , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who of these two suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain , the patient a had b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very buildup or great -- but one of them is that clear ...
but one of them is much worse than the other .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
and the one that was worse was the one where the pain was at the end of the day on its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than for b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the memory itself .
in the view of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend patient a &apos;s gut reflection by just letting the tube in without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you &apos;ve done that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the experience of the patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve done that the memory itself of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a better story on your experience .
what is a story about ?
here are some of the hamptons .
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is , is a turnaround , major moment of view and end .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the experience itself lives on a continuous basis .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of our life &apos;s moments -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is about three seconds . what that means is , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
and yet , you get the impression that you should count , that what happened during that moment of life is our lives .
very expensive real estate .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use them would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory of ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the experience itself , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the timing of time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first one , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory itself .
for the memory of itself , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory of self from a living self , time has very little influence on this story .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , the one who chooses the memory is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the experience itself has no voice in that election .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can think of this as , you know , a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of yourself as one that kind of draws the experience itself through experiences that the experience itself does not need .
i have the impression that when we make vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which is that we &apos;re making vacation on the most vacation of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little bit hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we cry from our memories ?
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of memory itself .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think about it quite often in relation to how many times i think of other vacation .
and i probably , from my memories of this three-week journey , i would spend about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
this is a people who are not cognitively distinguished between the colors blue and green , because the celestial scene is the forest that people depend on .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the trajectory of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are crushed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you were to choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide that conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about it in time , you get an answer , and if you think about it in the sense of memories , you might get a different answer .
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two types of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
it &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mask the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m a lot of researchers about well-being , who have mashed the exploration of happiness for a long time , in that very way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and about their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two kinds of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their lives , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone and you were to tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he had missed the opportunity , day after day , to have a great parking lot .
now , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has ordered their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his living self .
so the correlation is small .
we know something about what the happiness of the happiness itself is .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
the conclusion of what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
opperability costs reduce the happiness that we get through our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t really think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy the people in california are , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if they live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who are moving to california hoping to be happier .
well , your experience of self is not going to be happier .
we know that .
and the more options there are for choice , the more attractive properties of this choice are considered in the operational costs .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we got on the phone a couple of weeks ago , they said to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup survey .
is this something that you can participate in , because you have a couple of minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we had absolutely not expected to find .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
here &apos;s another example .
when we looked at how feelings are varied with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they get increasingly unhappy the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i &apos;ve rarely seen flat lines .
what &apos;s happening is that money doesn &apos;t raise you an experience of happiness , but it certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory of self , you get a different story .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american quest , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this fund seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything upside down , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , would take a evidence like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different from how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living self .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe also doing things slowly .
in the united states , you &apos;re looking at measuring the experience of the population .
that , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or at least should be the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i &apos;m designing computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online .
some of you might be thinking , &quot; this is a lot of time for games . &quot;
but one important point that he does is , whenever you decide for one thing , you decide not to do other things .
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , according to my research at the institute of the future , is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it took 21 billion hours a week to play .
this may first seem a little bit off , so i repeat it so that it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical for the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
he wanted to capture the feelings of playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will be what they do less attractive .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re playing , you &apos;re looking at some nuances here , looking up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows are surprise .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that &apos;s so exceedingly positive that they didn &apos;t even know it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you do it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of something like this . this is an epic victory .
this player is about to be in front of an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers all over the world , when we &apos;re attacking the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are against all odds on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you know ? yes ? ok .
this is me doing &quot; i &apos;m bad &quot; face in life .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we &apos;re better at play than we are in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in the game worlds . i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think that many of us are turning into our best version , at any given time and instantly willing to try to solve the problem in persistence , as long as it &apos;s necessary , to try again after the failure .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , we just don &apos;t have them in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we get these feelings out of the games into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft , which is the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially at the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a world-class mission , right away .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
so they can do that .
they never get a task they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of your skills , so you have to do a hard job , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and you turn around . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are tons of staff .
wherever they go , hundreds of thousands of people working with them to finish their epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that very easy in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingertip of staff who are ready .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 &quot; or &quot; + 1 &quot; intelligence .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a species , and they bought them , and they didn &apos;t fit , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they carried them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one , plus one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time that we prefer to spend all our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcrap players have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to go upright .
so the first exciting primate .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like a couple of jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing games right now , it just makes sense when you consider the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , because it turns out that , using all this time on play , we actually change what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe in .
if you look at this interesting statistic , which was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person in a country today with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total that they spend in school , from fifth grade to high school graduation -- if you &apos;re never missing .
so we have a complete parallel path here , where young people learn the same way that it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; superfly . &quot;
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
and the seller said , &quot; do you want slender , lightweight or width ?
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours trying to study any subject until the 21st year of life , we become mastered in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world are doing .
so what we have here is a full generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players masterly good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have sort of unprecedented human potential before .
so many people now in the world who spend at least an hour per day playing online games .
this is our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it .
the game industry develops consoles that save energy and work on mobile phone networks , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
do you want to wash buttons , or friction , or wash acid ?
you expect an extra billion player in the next decade .
we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started to think about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivating .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , a barrier , along with the belief that we have a proven hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in spiders of social nets .
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that people like more after we &apos;ve played with them , even if they &apos;ve defeated us .
do you want to do jeans with holes ?
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and stay with the end of the game .
so the interplay enables the growth of bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcrap players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we &apos;re relaxing or doing nothing .
we know that we work as human beings optimally when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right task .
and finally , epic meaning .
you want to cut way down , cookie , blah blah , blah , &quot; and so on , he said .
players love to become part of the awe missions of planetary scale .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in the right light , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve been compiling more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
and the only problem is that you think you can change virtual worlds , but not the real world .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i would like to have the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness any less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , because of the mischiefs , six or seven languages , is that you never hear anyone learn a language .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
you can make stronger social bonds in games than in real life . you get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to do all these damn jeans , and i lost the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passengers jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start to turn the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years ago .
there are these ancient cubes made of sheep skulls . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep skulls .
and these were , in a way , the first humans developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games were invented , more specifically , in the kingdom of lydia during famine .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to have a crazy idea .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game and agreed a national strategy , and on a day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity , that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then , the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next .
likewise , i think we &apos;re going to use games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we use games to deploy everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
but i felt worse .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get any better , so the king decided to use a final cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydia , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people back as there was food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
this sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrussians , who later formed the roman empire , have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos;s crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global refrigeration that took almost 20 years , which could explain famine .
so this crazy story could be true .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing games by escaping in games for 18 years , and then having these intuitions , and learning so much about playing with each other that they were saving the entire civilization .
so , we can do that too .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcrap series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i &apos;m going to take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should make sure that half of us spend an hour playing per day , until we &apos;ve solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question i &apos;ve dedicated my work at the institute of the past few years to the future .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations of what a good couple of jeans were going up .
we don &apos;t want to try to tell the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible result , and then empowering people to get this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victory , and we give people the opportunity to achieve it .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try to get people epic victory in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil spill .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing them over the last three years .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when there was only one way .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they &apos;re going to survive . most of our players have stayed in the game .
so for the next world-class game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the computation of a supercomputer that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global extinction system , &quot; of course .
the call to players to sign up is almost like a jerry bruckheimer film .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strings , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that you can read when you google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social change , &quot; 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic about this . we have &quot; level high &quot; for local understanding , knowledge interconnectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining your own social enterprises to save the world .
i &apos;m going to finish .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a huge meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to connect close social networks , urgency optimism , and the desire for epic significance .
i really hope that together we play important games to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world-changing games start !
thank you .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that came to me a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always taken my synonymous dictionary on writing , but i &apos;ve been ready to work on the text , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , devastated , mutilated , wounded , aroused , disconnected , remotely served , smooth , impotent , castriped , paralyzed , handdicaptive senil , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , refined , done , broken , counted , and also injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend , and i had to laugh first , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; advocate , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading and collect after this overwhelming word tide and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a foreign , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy in the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and shape my self-image outside my family &apos;s field , also in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
if i took that post seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m going to celebrate for the odds and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
adding opportunities into people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing people &apos;s expectations about how well these possibilities are going to be .
so i immediately called myself the online copy of 2009 , and i expected to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms are shaking me &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
they just listen and then they start talking .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
a lot of ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of a flight has a huge force , because what you say out loud can also manifest themselves .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
now , even a human being eightlessly known as a child could be enough to constrain them and to mutilate them .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open your doors ?
a person who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo-american whose name , as you can think , most americans couldn &apos;t say correctly . so he &apos;s always called dr. p. .
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just like created for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practice , seemingly infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these benches more than anything else . i hated them . i flew them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , and so i tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he was watching me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and benign -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to one day break one of these benches .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because , if you did , you would not all know what this is about .
and of course , this was just a simple trick by dr. p. , so that i would do the practice that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the view that the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital station was going to be in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and i could imagine myself as a naturally powerful , powerful and atlethal person .
this is just one example of how adults in positions of power can drive a child &apos;s imagination .
but as the quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries have shown us , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to enable each and every one to think of themselves as powerful people .
our language hints at the social change that has been caused by a technological change in many cases .
from the medical standpoint , you can say , of course , that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and to develop beyond the limits that they have set their natural fate , not to speak at all about social networking platforms , allow people to have their own identity , to define themselves in a way , and to orient to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever that there &apos;s always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something very special and very powerful to society , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you how to deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never adapted to me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering people &apos;s questions , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with violin lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on a challenge , without being coined by the experience associated with it , as if my life had been so successful , because i could take the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
the truth is more like this .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to embrace in order to better deal with our lives .
adversity just belongs to our lives .
and i tend to think of widows as my shadow .
sometimes i realize he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly present , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to take the effect , or the severe of the fight of a person .
there are challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is dealing with it in a different way , but the question is not whether we &apos;re dealing with adversity or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love with fate strikes , but also preparing them to get good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
you have to separate two things clearly : one is the medical fact of being amputated and the other is the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
the reason is that it was better than anything was worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world always means that it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who are heart to us and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even to put a prediction on the quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to that we don &apos;t have the basis of someone who &apos;s actually disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we fix that , for each one , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being wholly , and we don &apos;t perceive all of his forces and possibilities , we create in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond patology and focus on all the human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between perception of our inadequacy and our great spirit of invention .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we get them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds .
i think i &apos;m more likely to realize that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to grabbing it for the hug , to put it on the bow , to use a fight , and maybe even dance with it .
and maybe we &apos;re able to see violin as something natural , coherent and useful , and we don &apos;t feel so disturbed by their presence .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its kind , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
out of conflict comes creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that the human ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to change through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest human abilities .
and maybe we know what wood we &apos;re cut from when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly the sense of adversity , a perception of the i.t. , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give violin a new meaning that goes beyond severe times .
maybe we can see violin as a change .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant , because their expectations , my expectations , are domestic .
advocacy is for a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage that we have added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . the typical . but not the normal . and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if you really had them ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality against a different kind of opportunity or strength to formulate it a little bit more dangerous , and so we can release the forces of a lot of children , and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolos have found that we have always challenged people from the members of our society : to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals were carrying older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that perhaps happened because the life experience in these people &apos;s survival was valuable for society .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what all of you have come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
a few years ago , i went to the city that i grew up in a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a snapshot of tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
this was dr. kean , a man that i only knew from my mother &apos;s narratives about that day , because , of course , i was very typical of my birthday two weeks late .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostic was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i only had a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the overbringer , that stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me lie . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i had won a spelling competition in the second grade , whether i was on the path to halloids at the parade , whether i was a scholarship or one of my sports victories , and he was using these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be for a human quality of life .
and dr. kean continued to say , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t always get something else said , and even if they only get a little bit of support , if you leave kids alone , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , are two different things .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , if i had traded my prosthetics against legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated a second .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t leave myself down .
i was desperate to be normal at the time .
if you ask me this today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not in spite of these experiences .
and maybe this change could happen , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who were restricting me or wanting to impose an idea .
you see , it really just needs one person to demonstrate to you how you can manifest your forces , and you &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommending -- if you can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves up doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; roots in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means creating something that is in one thing to tickle the potential out .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
but defeating is not always such a bad thing .
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in britain , and then gymnasians were transformed into overall schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call it &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided by grades .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted peacefully in 1958 .
and the a students get more severely examined , get the better teachers and so on .
they then gave students over a three-month period with a &quot; sufficient &quot; note &quot; very well , and they were told that they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks you to hear the heart that reverse was told to the one-on-one students that they were just enough .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- except for the students who had failed school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers were not refused .
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jean , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
they were just told that they were the one-on-one students , and they &apos;re the students with the note enough , and they were teaching them something , and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no more hope . he &apos;s not found anything beautiful . he &apos;s missing our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human spirit , to continue to hope , to find ourselves and other people around themselves beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in positive ways .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and a new way of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois tells me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the boats , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , he says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose , by a few changes in your genes , i said that you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
how about living longer on good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has been yearning for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see you .
a few . probably about as many creative people here are .
that &apos;s very good .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is , you .
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to think of that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous subject here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor on the subject .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
they could have done better .
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communications device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is why you &apos;re wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it lying for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve put a bush center as a branch of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing species at the tips of these branches have been successful in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far in the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimps about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
it seems that we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can use that , and we can determine the mechanisms of a common bacteria to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically different from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we talk about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than it does in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think , if antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they could only want without effort on their own .
it &apos;s really a lightweight way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestion of essential nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in the form of a species ?
or are we supposed to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a small notation .
that was us .
this is also the entertainment of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is continued in both dead cells .
but at that time , when multi-cellular organisms emerged , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that passes the genome on , the rest of the body becomes critical .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies occurs in evolution at the same time as sexual reproduction .
now i have to admit , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel room door .
he opens the door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences to themselves , they think it &apos;s their fault .
there &apos;s a beautifully disgusted showgirl in front of him .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that i was a doctor who was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i are developed like boster rockets to send the genetic questioning to the next stage of the orbit , and then drop into the ocean .
and so the image result is that we get better in general , objective , and we feel worse .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to reach immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution does not necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s only the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and in doing so , the hot steam survives otherwise , if fish were there , it would be vacuum cooked fish , yet they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s going on in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward into the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
so let me remind you .
and the reasons for that would be that , first of all , through medicine , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to ourselves exactly the same way that we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried and made a severe mistake .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slow , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize , as a species , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a devastating , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided from us as individuals in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
how could it be possible that we do this ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decides .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to do genetic adaptations on your body , that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or reduce the risk of cancer or stroke ?
would you not want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes are going to be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
and the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in one to four months .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than a choice .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and into the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long for the reality that there &apos;s going to be 1,000 dollars in human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- what frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research where he took an adult skin cell , a fibrocist , and by manipulating just four genes , the cell induced to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect themselves , but also serve for immunity against other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in gang with vaccine versus influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it will be much more possible .
just imagine two other small changes .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your kids a better chance of healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , removing the hemophiles , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable change to prevent disease , could also enable us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t we have the power of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re at a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from alt style evolution to neo-evolution .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to take probably 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even in the next 100 years .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time at which choice improves our common good .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to shape a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society of dialects and uniformers , or robuster and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
for good or for evil , and sooner than you might think , these decisions will be up to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine , now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman skills , or another one that helps wheelchair drivers get up and go back .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
now , as a rule of question -- i &apos;m almost finished -- as a rule of thinking about it , the thing that makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is the material wealth .
they &apos;re not something other than something that they put on in the morning that gives them extra strength and will continue to increase their speed and will help them keep their balance .
this is , in fact , the true melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldiers , which is on average about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the question that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you now to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds over different terrain for many hours .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , crawl and perform highly agile movements .
there are a lot of places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about a lot of them whose problem is not that big a choice .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re so far as to introduce our industrial partner to this device , this new exoskeleton in this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people in the world who are estimated in the wheelchair .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injuries , who in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- were hit by fate , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , which is multiplied .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
your problem is that you have too little .
and so , by the way , since 500 years of his , i have to say , it &apos;s been very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now , let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which is a result that it hasn &apos;t been able to run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches , sending signals back to our onboard-computer , which is attached to her back .
there are also batteries , the engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints that they move forward in this rather smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and i was in the best form when a monstrous purchase tree was paralyzing me .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my basin .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
not long after that , a doctor came into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steel every fifth of hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn to ski , to climb , to even ride with your hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet us and argue with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have the whole potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and annoying is , steve levitt told you about how yesterday these expensive and difficult to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
if i &apos;m not fighting poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman with a volunteer deletion , the fire .
now , in our city , where volunteers were supporting a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be pretty early on in the brands to be able to mix with you .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the brink , so i had quite good opportunities to get in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible main man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she stood in the stroke and barefoot under a screen out in the flowing rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of the house owner .
the dog ! i was very linguistic .
there was some lawyer or a wealth administrator , who could now tell people for the rest of his life that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
well , i was next .
the main man was waving me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , you &apos;ve got to go by the fire , and this woman &apos;s got to get some shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
they took shiny photos off the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went out -- the stairs up , down the hallway , over the real firemen who were already quite finished in the bedroom to get some shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down , where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we wore our estimates outside to the house owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
a few weeks later , the fireman got a letter from the owner &apos;s house where they were thanking for the brave use of saving their house .
they even hurt .
one of the most well-estimated kindness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m a witness of generosity and kindness on a large scale , but i also see the actions of charity and the mutation of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who either have reached a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer you this following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
use it in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
not every day will give us a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day we have the opportunity to change one .
they make us worse stand there .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret to the progression of humanity .
a place where women are leading the cepter , sex saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationships .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the congo forest .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
if something of what enables people in our society to make decisions like the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , it would not only improve people &apos;s lives , but it would also improve our dignity .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we have overemphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos shows us the other side of the medal .
as chimpanzees are led by big , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where lethal force has not been seen yet .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least well known under the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese forest , and they &apos;re hard to observe .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been raging for decades and almost demanding as many lives as the first world war .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction is also endangering the survival of the bonobos .
economists call this a pareto improvement rating .
meat trade and the decrease of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos that are left -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like that conflict and social fishing .
i &apos;m not saying that would be the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is made up of more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play is not just child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about the creation of diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
income distribution will make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plagued to us .
and if you look at bonobos in the game , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that holds us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique images from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo -- and i don &apos;t think about football .
so here &apos;s a young female and a male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think it &apos;s more like it , right ?
yeah !
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of bringing new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while at the same time , it &apos;s tremendous fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think just like they do , we sometimes play alone , and we &apos;re taking boundaries of our inner and external worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we form are the real nutrition ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future in which we need to adapt to increased challenges , through greater creativity and printed cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem to be appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover creativity and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at the same moment , each baby -- okay .
so two pairs , each baby .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because if you imagine all the time making , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
imagine that just for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that , in one case , the sperm has a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm is wearing a x chromosome hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are survival , both light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
for most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
the other hat that i carried in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought the fish knows something .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types that question social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often i &apos;ve worked with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality happens in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the kind of gender types that are not the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms leaves the protogonads that we have fetal stage all to grow up to the testes .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone &apos;s testosterone is in the fetal state .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body doesn &apos;t respond to the testosterone .
because the truth is that if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
and that &apos;s called androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female trajectory .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
they took these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing , and concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionary with the spear .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes to that there &apos;s something else .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian sticks and uterus , they actually carry testicles , and that they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
and the side ones make androgens , which are vibrating hormones .
most women , like me -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me are actually talking about on androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has a androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual is not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be spread across the entire range .
here &apos;s another example : a few years ago , i got a phone call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , he had raised a friend , he had sex with his friend , he lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had ovarian sticks and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitaly was male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
they increase paralysis , and they reduce happiness .
and it wasn &apos;t until he got 19 years old that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was interior , that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a version of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , where ovarian tissues are enveloped by testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexually -- surgeons are often adapted to the norm is not because it &apos;s an advantage to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomical arrangement comes with a particular identity .
so we have the concept that being a woman is about having a female identity ; being a black person is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
everybody needs a gold fish glass .
so we have this horrible simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that is actually something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most exciting recently , the south african runner caster semenya , last year , whose gender was challenged by the leichatlethik world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me on the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or male and intersexual and intersexual , and in fact , we are that line as natural .
so we have a situation where , the further our science continues , the more we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories , are much more unsharp than we thought .
this is almost limited to complete security -- maybe also for the fish , definitely for us .
and that &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we went into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
we &apos;re starting to find , for example , that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science further and further , we get increasingly into a zone of discomfort , where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas that we see in beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes a human , so that it &apos;s a different right than fetal life .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as publicly as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
but the handicap of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
our ancestors had never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
you &apos;ve been holding a feather under your nose , and when she moved , you haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it wasn &apos;t moving , you &apos;ve buried it .
but today we are in a situation where we take people who are vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we get caught in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole thing would collapse from categories of someone like me really would make me happy .
i &apos;m progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought made me excited .
and it makes me excited about thinking about democracy .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
thank you very much .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , what they did , that i found myself looking at the malignant music in 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they showed back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another one that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years was customized for us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the old world rulers didn &apos;t have a concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have these political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
the founding fathers proved this idea back and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
you know , i talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
they nivellized the game field , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities matter , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew up together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth right .
they moved to a naturalistic concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
and as part of it , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
we &apos;re actually starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and they &apos;ve been preparing , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who tried the right to vote , the concept of founding fathers , says that anatomical communality is more important than the anatomical difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and ovariation is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote on full citizenship , the right to own property , etc . &quot;
and women were arguing that successfully .
next came the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who are saving , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color based on anatomical similarities before anatomical differences , again , successful .
we see the same with the disability movement .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to question why we sustain certain divisions .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
now , well-being , i want to sustain certain divisions , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their consent to sex or to marriage .
so there are some anatomical divisions that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been displayed at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months early , so she was born on june one , 1980 .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , she gets all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have a reasonable sex , the right to choose , to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be attracted to what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
whereas maria can &apos;t see the same right in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that is to marry the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in any state , but maria can now marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science makes such progress in anatomy , that we have to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , sometimes it feels like science is doing itself .
so where do we go ?
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we &apos;re pulling it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas decided at a point that to marry a man means that you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means that you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not being tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of talking &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people for &quot; their skin color , &quot; but for the property of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
how do you judge people based on their character properties ?
we have digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever , which probably deserve social benefits more than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably also know some bright label dogs that are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to do the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible using fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our efforts for democracy , we did a really good job , and i think we would do our job in the future .
we don &apos;t have a situation where , for example , iran is the case where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to undergo a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life from this digital universe ?
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought a few siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i telephone with him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very poorly , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of having surgery to separate it ? &quot;
the united states provides incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are without having to change for the state .
that &apos;s why i think we need to be leaders .
we go through initiation rituals .
well , just to conclude , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or what it might have looked like if we had more mothers involved .
and i want to say something that &apos;s kind of radical for a feminist , which is , i think , there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people use group thinking .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in gender difference research .
this is a map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of complex social relationships and caring for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and so , when we think about this , we have an interesting situation to do .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do it -- a really curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say there could be something , on average , which makes female brains more different from male brains , which makes us more attention to very complex social relationships , and more attention to the protective needs .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of figuring out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept of not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
and maybe it &apos;s where we have to go in the future , if we &apos;re going to take democracy beyond anatomy -- less thinking about the individual body thinking about identity , and thinking more about relationships .
so that if , as a people , we try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love finding , at every opportunity , a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also photographing and blogging recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from my second hand on flea markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment , and also the money exchange .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars are usually serving a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it &apos;s shopping for my own personal quest .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and tell you what i &apos;ve been packing here for this exciting week at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
i brought seven underpants along , and that &apos;s all .
so we decided that the only way to go forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i have bet that i would find everything else that i might want to wear if i came to palm springs .
and because you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i found some things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i believe it or not , have learned from these adventures not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i carried all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable if you &apos;re wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
sometimes people tell me i looked like i &apos;m playing &apos; dress &apos; or i remember her seven years old .
is it possible to create these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to just summarize that for you .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody in this audience .
we should be able to rock everything we want .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
they drilled through each other .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate this all back .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to do these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , shining outfit that &apos;s only waiting for me if i have a little love in my heart and i &apos;m looking for it .
thank you very much .
thank you .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
good afternoon , all together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point .
this is what we call in our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because of the formula 1 in the last decade , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula one race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , the information from the car , pass this information on to the system , and then process it , and then use it to send back that car and change things in real time as information is collected .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made out of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is that real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , were just equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as a free computer , they start reacting in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
if we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land surface , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- it causes up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
beyond the cities , all of this perceive and drive into objects of everyday life .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but still increased , and our final point would now be on an exponential curve .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli organized for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk to us back .
in a certain sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom is out there becoming a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means he ended up taking the hammer and throwing it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , to see and drive our environment with the idea .
let &apos;s start to see .
we started this 15 years ago .
now the first project i want to introduce to you is actually one of our first labs .
it came out four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that is being collected from the operator , to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of cidane , the head cap .
and anyway , italy won at the end of it .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the river tiver .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal game time .
first extension , second extension .
zidane , in a moment of head push .
italy wins . yeah .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the seventh team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people have gone to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just an example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
another quick example of feeling : this is not about people , it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips , which is a mac computer , how they came together .
but we know very little about where things are going .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors you make .
so in this project , we actually designed some small markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who , a little over a year ago , helped us tag the things that they were throwing away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the garbage and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
so we had to develop a new way that we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but the other thing is that we believe that every day , when we see the cup that we throw away , it doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re throwing away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can make a behavioral change .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about this , and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was , how could you connect technology , new technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
they do something like a water curtain with visual points of water .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
if these images fall down , they can write on them , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to make you jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he liked it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach them , it will open and let them in .
the roof was also covered with water .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually put the roof down .
it &apos;s a small virus that kills bacteria .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , these days , when you drive down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who wonders what &apos;s going on inside .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
and what you see here is , when i tried not to get wet when i tried to test the sensors that opened the water .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was an even more fun thing .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them in , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how people , the things we design .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery points , the data points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what led us to think about the following project that i &apos;m showing you now .
imagine these images could really begin to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each one of them with a little bit of alternating light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a uniform formation in two dimensions .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of chemical and put it in a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , not the position of the imagery .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes in different solutions .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go through and you can move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller coming down to form a smooth v as it used to .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this . so , just like we saw before .
imagine that every single person is being controlled by people .
it could have a momentum from every single point of imagery that comes from people , from people &apos;s movements or something .
i want to show you something too first here .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
the viral particles were then released by the cells , and they came back and killed e. coli .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left , you see the images , the different captured impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion recording .
so that you can understand the whole movement .
you can do this all the time .
but then , once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with color , gravity and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something that we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model right now .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re doing with people again to do something and to change the environment -- almost something we call a cloud movement , how to move a check engine , but with a cloud .
imagine that everybody can give a little donation to a picture .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened over the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve gone from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually bring people in , where they do things together , collectively .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way as a cloud is a cloud of particles .
they laughed more than you do here .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with visual points .
you can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital lightning tower at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i care about the context .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that humans are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i took awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy , while i was trying to figure out what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were running out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice mines .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they interact with their surroundings in a clear way and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and clam to the bitter end , while others stop it and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that it &apos;s isolated , separated and alone , just like we often see people .
but the truth is far from it .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , and so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in cassette tapes the size of the virus , where we could vary the size of the tape tape tapes to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral metabolic drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m going to pretend in my footage of these icebergs as if i &apos;m making portraits of my ancestors , in the consciousness that they exist in these individual moments , and never will exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a progression of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are a iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely are you actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
on the left-hand side , you see a little boat .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information has to be really flawed .
this is about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was at a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from the walk and said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the als .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was facing him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
we found 30 errors in the rescue , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;re listening to the higher social layer and you have remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people something about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
ordinary people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving bell &quot; ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers go .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to fix it .
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
i was committed to the place and to his brother and father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s still carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw a laser pointer on it , which is just a negative surface .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there are following a life cycle .
it starts with the sex parts , and then the shrub words come , and then the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that can be used to use your eyes to control things , we should find a way that tempt can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
that was the beginning of the journey .
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we did some things .
first of all , we &apos;ve got insurance on the doors , and actually got a device for tempt that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
this was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my kids and i moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back and all the images on the walls were graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach parade in venice , my kids were brought in , my dog was also in , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice strandpromenade , some copper wire and some things from the building market and the electronics trade .
you may have heard that we put watermarks in .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we put the code free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can be tortured .
no hospital .
now , any paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of somebody else , and that &apos;s his room .
now there &apos;s all this rumble in front of the great unveiling .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
and after more than a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nights , tony first drew back after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he &apos;s looking beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve tended his bed so that he can look outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what kind of feeling that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drew something .
i feel like i was crushed underwater , and finally someone reached down and raised my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
this is something like our fight scream .
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
that &apos;s what keeps us up , and it keeps us evolving .
and we need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same as a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to do it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been getting all kinds of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrases , thoughts .
armstrong tweeted about us , and then , december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest part is -- and this closes the whole circle -- that this april , at the meeting moca in the inner city of los angeles , there will be an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty much off .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with a generic technology , but i &apos;ve just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should be , every single day , every single one of you should ask yourself something that needs to be done . if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
thank you .
we just signed up at the beginning .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most promised children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come from a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as a revelation .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle i want to tell you about today .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom swing .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a phone call from this teacher , woman posting , saying , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy i know you &apos;ve found him now .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
we built the pieces so we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we put them on their family because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation i talked about was coming .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved yours .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned here so often .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , putting them together around 24,000-letter pieces to reassemble them , up to 72,000 .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you get up to 1,000 meters .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
imagine a plane full of smoke .
imagine a driveway , the claw , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah .
this sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at her in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
in every step , we produced these pieces in the overload so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not the route usually .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a noisy airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most irreverent words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; prepare for the jump . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a terror , life was over .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
now i want to share with you three things that i learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people that i wanted to reach for a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is so far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to make a difference in life .
and that urgency , that goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was , when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much about hair extension -- i thought , boy , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
in my own humanity , and with my mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i was packing .
so this looks like a basketball playoff .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regret the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m going to decide to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock begins to count , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , ... &quot;
you see the water coming .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling , man , to die is not terrifying .
it &apos;s almost like we &apos;re preparing our lives to do it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and this sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
... not yet .
we knew about a mechanism called the homologist recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble those pieces .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense for me .
i realized then by connecting the dots together , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became a miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you put up because you think you would be there forever ?
how would you change your relationships , and how would you change the negative energy in it ?
and more than anything , are you the best parents that you can only be ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococccus radiodurans that has three million rads of radiation .
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple in itself .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we &apos;re able to combine the systems that control rotates and valves , we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
so we start with a windows dropper .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome is just falling apart .
the usage is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- mission performed .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research to stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the droppery part , made by countless cereal use .
and it seemed to have something with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has been put together again as it was .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this is a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a particular configuration was discovered , even when the particular program that tries to infect it on that target .
and if not , then stuxnet does nothing .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon find out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the code of attack , and we found that it &apos;s built into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the stuxnet drug is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the use data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see an excerpt from that attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get out of this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-functioning calls , because we know what they do .
and then we looked for tims and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can actually live in a vacuum .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we &apos;re calling ourselves to remember that it &apos;s definitely high-grade sabotage , it &apos;s got to be a high-quality goal , and very likely it &apos;s in iran , because that &apos;s where most infections have been reported .
now , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
basically , it goes out to the buchehr nuclear power plant and the uranium incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; take me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
their hunters were able to smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away , and determine what animal species of these were .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor controller .
the rotor is this moving part inside the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to make it happen slowly and uncanny -- obviously in the attempt to have warehouse engineers desperate so that they wouldn &apos;t be able to get there quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse of this by looking at very precisely at data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 sticks out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature on how these centrifuges are built in natance , and i found that they were structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attack ?
it &apos;s almost identical structure .
so again , this was a really good thing to do .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of this out there .
and this gave us great confidence for what we looked at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results were achieved by a couple of weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little head of head takes over a cascade , turns the rotors and slows them down , and the big head comes with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just native .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s something really cool that we discovered -- actually got me out of the socks .
here &apos;s an added shot of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- in fact , we &apos;ve only used hefe-mechanics with the right design of the pieces , we &apos;ve adjusted them . yeast then automatically assembles them .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming values of sensors -- so , for example , of printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like hollywood movies , where during the pursuit , the surveillance chase is being fed with earlier recordings .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here is obviously not just to list the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
so in a power station , for example , when the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open depositing valves within a millisecond .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and not the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice .
this is frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
so , for example , he would work as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to use the data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as possible .
and when you do that , you end up with a cybermass destruction weapon .
this is the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
this is footage for six seconds .
we have to face the consequences , and we start to prepare for ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , it was reported a lot that people think the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind this is the cyberpower superpower .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for having a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and , at the same time , kind of dangerous .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mine -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking for terrible situations , and it &apos;s all for trying to look at social siege that they &apos;re engaging and interesting , and hopefully in a way that makes them entertaining and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
some of you may have heard that i did an ad on ebay a few weeks ago .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by people .
i sent some facebook news , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights on my tedtalk in 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and nonprofits , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you just see , which didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content at that time , and not a lot of clues to what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name here is presented : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic will be , and that you could actually fly around your ears , especially if i let your company stand dumb for your participation .
but apart from that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
as i said , over the years , i &apos;ve been in some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arrange me to go into a room for anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest film ever sold &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely covered with brands -- from the cover sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
that was more emphasis .
if we were to print it with a 10-page writing size and without distances , it would cover 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies .
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest film ever sell , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are a part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the entire film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know what people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but do you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to do that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows , when the film comes out , we might look like a horror vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer is probably going to be really no .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the movie or a difficult thing to do for me ?
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
jk : both .
... so , not that optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands are .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to do with ...
there are some places we can turn to .
it &apos;s just as easy if you do it in eukaryontes as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about cloning .
put out the camera .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have anything to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument , that the masses bring this message .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a full transplant of a chromosome from one cell to another and activate it .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal error , and that was the following .
in fact , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this image is for is a problem .
you see , if you type transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that comes out .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and look through , instantly understandable ; characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re now hearing a lot about transparency .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species , and , roughly speaking , these two are distant from each other , like humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to use this chromosome , and we broke it up with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to appreciate our very mature graphics here .
but when it comes so far that it should be done , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and she &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole dish of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
the new chromosome went into the cell .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , one agency , was ready to help us -- and also just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends , who make little independent movies , say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
every time i get on my way , and whenever i open the medical tank , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
in fact , we thought that &apos;s the end here , but we tried to get the process a little further .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they so far ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this before the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either floral fusion or a paradise winds , you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short tape .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an intrinsic socket .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone does under the aches .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of some place , every time thousands of characteristics , add to a species in just a second .
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
things like this have a more positive effect .
and this is a million concerts .
what about me ? what about the printing stype ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
i don &apos;t know .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that will have changed at a time , have missed a lot of biology .
i really like beautiful clothing .
and in the &apos; 80s , revival hits skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand of gerry ?
unique .
to make sense of this conversation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable faith in the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes , and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand i am is , i would say , the neat fly .
woman 2 : partly hippie , part of yogi , partly brooklyn girl -- i don &apos;t know .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell museum animals all over the country , worldwide .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addict to writing .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often look at the intersection of dark glamour and reliable fly .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve already added .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could go in my head , someone who could really help me understand what &apos;s called &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they helped companies like nestle , feminine , hallmark discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
that &apos;s what i have . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
tell me about this world .
it was exposed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
md : this world ? i think the world of your own is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come from one place , and for me , they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s next that you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what &apos;s the context of this with the thoughts and feelings about yourself ?
it &apos;s like i want to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like odd things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had added .
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did they go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be scared . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species , and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality has two separate , but supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eightful brand .
they &apos;re very good at adding .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will just focus on one strength , rather than both .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things that they &apos;re not sure are , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to be welcome to them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a skilled chess .
what other brands are doing that ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
now , there are brands and mindful brands , these things that come and go , but a playful brand is a pretty strong thing .
a remarkable , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
all of the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood to whales ?
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you something that &apos;s a little more quiet , more reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , outlandish and lovely like erol flynn , agile and professional , magical and mystic like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and mondemonic like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , sacred , suspicious and wise like the dalai lama or yoda ?
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies saying no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to give up on this control , who wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually tell -- stories that an ad would never usually support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film today , that you use mris to pin the pleasure centers of the brain , both to make advertising and movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no timeline , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are going to their way into impoverished schools all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i got the greatest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands have done .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and what was that like for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film had premiered the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this actually includes just a period of two and a half weeks .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
well , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be creating a new form of the cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
and this is not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their customers to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks , that there are opportunities in these risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that when we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of possibilities that might scare them .
finally , as we move forward , we should be welcome to fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
full of a big spoon each , we &apos;re welcoming the risk .
why should we do that ?
and finally , let &apos;s welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk is &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; was presented by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights on ebay .
big data is transformed into big opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc : welcome transparency
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a $ 7100 check to fund my ted show next year .
my name is amit .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i proposed to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is now , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very easy to explain with this slide and your access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have too many museums , and i didn &apos;t have access to these works of art .
so when i went , and i went to these museums , i started learning a lot .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- to make art more accessible -- to bring technology together .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the start .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just on . a lot of fun .
puppy them .
thank you , but the best one is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter bregel in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
if the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
so this is one of the images .
today , three people on this planet are for anyone who existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
this is all the metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click it away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what &apos;s called the gigapixel technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion images ? &quot;
so here &apos;s what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
but then they really want to go deep into it .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
and so i started playing around , and i realized something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did some research , i talked to some familiar people at the met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans are beaten with a stick on the side of the day .
it was quite popular , apparently .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned about it .
to get really close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
the best one comes , though , in a second .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the brushes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh create this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i really am in the cracks .
that &apos;s star night , probably never seen that way before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , if you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can put your own collection on .
very simply , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is &quot; the donated , &quot; in the national allery .
you can miss everything with remarks , send to your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
and i think , finally , for me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
they come from the artists .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to be righted with this digital medium of art , and we &apos;re going to represent it online properly .
and the biggest question that i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitudes of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good share of logic to add the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good share of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love playing with things .
so we go out and play with it , and then we see how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database with about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
basically , they do the same thing .
it &apos;s interesting .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember watching a child play on a ground threshold .
he was another little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t leave you alone , and that they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with the ground sponges , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of strange things -- like you fly directly through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , no one has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow all the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
so i would feel better with the whole thing if we could sort of show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
we &apos;re actually hitting the limits of biological reality , and the limits of our imagination .
so a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see , which was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see that green spot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to expand it a little bit . we &apos;re going to look at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
we now have technologies because of these fast synthesics to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you do a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new siliconic slices , and i rocked on all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool shaped hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then i go up to other people , and i stop doing all these things , because i don &apos;t want to bother them , or , frankly , she disappears .
so quantum mechanics says that unmoving objects feel the same way .
the fellow riders for unmoving objects are not just humans , but also the light that appears to them , and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by them and the heat of the room .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see this piece of metal behaving quantum mechanically , we had to throw all the travelers out .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and then we did .
we turned off the light , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , just in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave the way it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it was really strange to move .
instead of it just being quiet there , it was vibrating . the way it was vibrating was sort of like this -- like a stretching and coherent bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is something really fantastic .
what does it mean for an object at the same time to vibrate and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about atoms .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octants , or drugs , new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with just a small team than the last 20 years of science .
just too precise time points match them .
for the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom is at the same time in two different places , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth taking all this year into the clean space , because , check this out , the mass difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be at the same time in two different places , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in multiple places at the same time , how would that feel ?
how would your consciousness deal with the fact that your body is delocalized in the room ?
and it &apos;s just a mere selection . we can selecte for life , production of chemicals or fuel production and so on .
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked at the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they want to live and work , they have been given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on that you &apos;re actually sitting down and designing new species on the computer .
at the moment , we are far away from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even available to a single city that it would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs them to build .
so we could make the world a very simple place with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , if you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just exchange the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments are doing this already ; the other half don &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they would rely on , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid complaints and to deflect from degradation .
so it turns out that it &apos;s very hard to get out of all these extensions .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , assuming that the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that , about the same time , jafour and octavio , were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and be able to do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , ja4 said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an undefeated area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy ; a part of the canadian ambassador , and then people want to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a major depression .
in the next plantable elections , pepe lobo won a turnaround , whose program promised both novelty and light .
he asked octavio to become his boss .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
through improvement , through trial and through the study of consumers , i tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation fuel .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give a lot of attention to new technologies , but for progress it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend of guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him jafour again .
they called me .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the head of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i tried to make a clear sense of how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york . remember , in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place when there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
you saw corn recently in ethanol , which is just a bad experiment .
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , was that a charter city is a place that is initially uninhabited , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there , and gives people the opportunity to decide either to live under these rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to get our country forward .
i was asked to come back to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and the fifth of january .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
so i gave another one with facts of filled talk , which includes a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it needs to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , they all applauded .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that will come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar valuations , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the leader of congress came up and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be a way to live in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would be dependent on the help of partnerships , they could benefit from their partnerships , who they would support in the order of the law for this charter and the performance , that everybody can trust that the charter is actually perpetrated .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equally significant for all parties in honduras who have been suffering from fear and mistrust for many years .
we went to an area .
this picture is from this place .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as an output material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
it &apos;s a millennium thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after , on january 19th , they voted on congress to change the constitution to have a comprehensive regime that is reliable for particular development areas .
in a country that has just been elected a major crisis behind , in which congress has been elected for this change in the constitution with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
in order to become part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved at 114 to a voice for the second time .
immediately after that election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a large , new city center that &apos;s built in south korea -- big than the city center of bostons .
all you can see in this picture was built within four years , after it took four years to get the permits .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first one with the fourth generation fuels , and that &apos;s in about 18 months .
the other place that was very interested in urban building is singapore .
there were two cities already built in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so basically , if you think about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
you already have a building site , and you &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
urban designers and builders are also very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been declared , is there &apos;s a lot of rent .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who admit that they want to live in a different place permanently .
a million people leave latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of you are fathers who are forced to leave your families to search for work -- sometimes it &apos;s single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , it &apos;s sometimes even kids who are trying to find their parents that they , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributed hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities competing for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different methods .
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and creating art .
i recently did a poll with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that anxiety is a typical american in a day , 70 .
and also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they watched ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that this ceo is dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and what they found is that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made within nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions took them an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus the one in which one hour of category ?
this is an organism we described in 1996 .
how good do you think you &apos;re at copying the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision overload problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , just if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the decision overload problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at that time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , in almost boiling water temperatures .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk guidance water .
i loved going to this business , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from thousands of years of old olive trees .
so i decided one day to visit the filium eiter , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that they really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the buses of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s your martian gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
we set up a little cookie right at the entrance of the business .
it turns co2 into methane using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we &apos;ve put six different flavors of marmelade , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we &apos;ve looked at two things : one , which case would be more people and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when they were 24 , about 60 percent , than if they were six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were more likely to buy a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing up when they were 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who stopped when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
well , if you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who you had six to choose than if you had 24 .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
so , the theme of the day : saving money .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production shops , convert co2 into fuel to drive this process .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at making decisions for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , influenced the likelihood of saving more for tomorrow .
and what we found was that there was actually a context .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people something between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the less participatory rate .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans that two fonds offered , had a participation rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that were offering almost 60 fund , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percentage .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , if you have more choices to choose , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate were more likely to have more possibilities available to them , the more they avoided it , the more actimized it , the more they were going to choose it .
the more possibilities they had available , the more they put all their money in pure money market accounts .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
none of these extreme decisions , one of the decisions that someone would recommend from people , if our future financial well-being is important .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism or whatever .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three key negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re pushing , even if it &apos;s against their own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to choose things that they &apos;re less happy for themselves , even if they &apos;re doing more objective .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essively and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparison and the boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research sites -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that less is more .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
you know , we really have -- modern goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? become a major source of energy .
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing legal space .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to confine , and the unimportant opportunities are going to get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder &apos;s species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of its 10 worst selling catastrophe , they found that the revenues went up by 87 percent -- a result of both of them , the increase in sales and reducing cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , which is now nine-largest supermarket in the world , aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of saving , i think one of the best examples that have recently come to the market , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson has been very strongly designing , and it &apos;s a program that &apos;s being offered at harvard .
now , every single harvard employees automatically participate in a lifetime fund .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fonds , not 300 or more fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to the development of vaccines .
you know how people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to confine it .
they &apos;re all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i asked the question is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , then their customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer a single vacation to all the people in this audience , including affordable vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap when you &apos;re ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always on the back of the year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
are these all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more about this .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
in fact , what you see objectively , the first time , is more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that they felt it more real the second time .
because the images made it real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision overlap , which is concretization .
it &apos;s about people in order to understand the difference between possibilities , understanding what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be vividly and concrete .
i think that this can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an ec-map or a credit card than they do on barrel money ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel the money .
and it turns out that if you make something feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro chemicals , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation in their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as it has always been , but we &apos;ve added a little bit of a thing .
the smallness that we put in there was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four-percent increase in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
the third technology : categorization .
we can handle more categories than we can deal with more choices .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine set .
this is what the future might look like with changes , can now be accelerated with the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryontes .
it turns out that in the throman &apos;s supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , the number is between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and better choice than i had given you the 400 choice against the one if i had given you 600 .
because categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the left display is swing , and the display on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think that the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
okay , a few more .
we are light-years away from improving people , and our goal is just that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
categories have to say something to the selector , not to which the choice is provided .
and this is a problem that you often see when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you want to inform with this ?
my fourth technique : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think , we just need to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you an opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to make your car completely .
now , these decisions are different from the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car color , outcolor of the car -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
now what i do is i change the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from many options , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many options .
what do i look at ?
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re constantly using the standard choice in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the healthiest , i &apos;m losing you .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice ponds over and over again , choose the standard choice .
we &apos;re losing them .
go from the little choice to the many , then stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses , nothing about my preferences at the interior state says , it still prepare me to choose .
it also makes me excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to get motivated to be interested in it .
so now it is . and for those of you who haven &apos;t been there , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever done -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that are mimicking the problem of decision overlap -- limited -- get rid of the excess alternatives ; concrete -- do it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; preparing for complexity .
each of these techniques i &apos;m describing to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best choice is that you &apos;re selective in the choice .
and the more we are selective , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-managers on youtube . i look at youtube videos professionally .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos become viral , and then finally , why it &apos;s important .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
but web videos have allowed us to become insanely famous all of our creative activities in a part of the culture of our world .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet until the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , a tiny percentage is ever viral , and it &apos;s looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that there was no religious faith in sub-saharan africa , of course , there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
whoa !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
ohhhhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in the yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s how you do it when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
what happened here ?
this is the machine below geneva .
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet that ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and shows a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we &apos;d have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos;s &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graph looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
well , it was friday , that was right .
we take pictures of this mini-big bang in detectors .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 gave up , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was the first one to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared with a large audience and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insider joke , and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies from &quot; friday &quot; to youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the one-way conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
nyan cat is animation and music in loop .
this is what i &apos;m working on . it &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters in the width , 22 meters in diameter .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of techies and geeks .
there was remixe .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
a whole remix community came out of the ground , which made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we do .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow , or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts could you have written that would be in ?
in a world where every minute of video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can come out like the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested in this when a friend said i should look at this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t drive on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
because this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats became a funny idea , and he looked at his argument five million times .
this approach is for anything new that we do creatively .
and that all leads us to the one big question ...
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative communities , completely unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and where the audience is popular .
as i said , one of the biggest stars -- justin bieber -- started with youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today we all feel we are also owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the characteristics of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
keep him in front of him at the march of the communist in saigon , as he must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now joking his .
he went back to silence .
he died , broken through history .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we got over it .
the next piece of puzzle shows how a boat in the early morning red is running quietly at sea .
my mother may 18 was when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had set her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and filmmaker saga glitt , a boat quiet on the lake , as a fishing boat .
all adults were aware of the risks .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle , which returned all the way around the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to have a rain of particles bouncing into the detector .
they were afraid of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
for a prisoner &apos;s take , my sister and i would have drunk her and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , clapping every wave on the bug , the vast and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came in many times , but were deceived by the death of the men on our boat , or the waste of the engine that six hours didn &apos;t want to start .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like this again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations , which together create a new life .
we settled in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew the machine worked , which is a big triumph .
unlike the old-fashioned middle-class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
the scaffolds from the hurdles came from the rest of the world .
and the feats of broken english were traded between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother was working on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double-layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was admitted , and it was put in more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to give for it , and most of the time , the new things that were always coming out of second hand .
two strands for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the knobs , because it had to reach six years .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; sled eye , &quot; and here and there are transformers : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this , when someone visited the google page and found the front page .
where do you go ?
something was going on inside of me .
there was a meeting to reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we were telling each other about our day , and we were listening to our grandmother &apos;s movements in the house .
my mother had nightmares from the boat .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came , so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then she made a cosmetic education , and she opened another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and inflexible , and sorted children , caught between two worlds .
loans and sponsors were searched .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides scientific achievement .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who put undesirable demands on himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe lives , in the tragic scars of violence , in drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was selected in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next piece , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous inhabitant of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak in places she had never heard of , and in housing , whose existence she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who closed each one of their days as had been for 20 years by telling each other and sleeping each other &apos;s stories in the same bed , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we were climbing the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about adolescence and education , and the neglect of marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived at the boundaries of the possible .
these wires are running 13-thousand ampuses when the machine is running on high-performance .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t deal with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the image -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to collapse the horizon , it can mean so light that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that wouldn &apos;t have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was a energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the wage .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me who didn &apos;t have the shoe , which was an irresistible challenge .
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at you and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
at the end of every day , i was cooking a giant pot soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to go to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm , and the local mandarin was the most important person .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
they can do that because if you cool them very far , they become something called superconductors .
her father died just after she was born .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without support for her husband , she worried for a sensation by bringing him to court and being an anchor in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go &quot; turns out to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around her coffin .
so at minus 271 , colder than the space between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
we told her stories and insured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the coffin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is her hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding it since this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; they didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
see who we were , and how life formed us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
now i &apos;d like my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
in one of the connections , between more than a thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manual turret .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life that defies bold every wave , the unconfused , steady tuckers of the engine , the long horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother here today is in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
but my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
so the wires heat up slightly and 13-thousand ampuses suddenly encountered electric resistance .
i combined it with my former preference to drawing , but it was a little different , because when the camera was using the camera , the process was more in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something that the process begins when the trigger is pressed .
photos like this : a building site along a much more driving road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , there &apos;s a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal to keep a realistic level .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
this was the result .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like you could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to find out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is this about the details or the colors ?
the living bears are the spirits .
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made on a two-dimensional surface .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
now , this is all even more impressive when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
so i think the essentials are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re overlisting our brains , because our brains just don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
but when we combine photos , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to get a realistic result .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two images fill these two demands -- shot from the same altitude and the same kind of light .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images start and end up by connecting them seamlessly .
makes it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges of the individual images , photographic deficiency , like rock depth , disconnected colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and let them look like a single picture , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
and they had to remove what we did .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely assembled from photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew i needed several months to plan them to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on an injury trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
and yes , i actually colored the house on the top of the island red to make it look more swedish .
we repaired them , repaired them .
so to get a realistic result , it goes from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
after that , it &apos;s about the combination of different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and then if you make good images , the outcome can be pretty beautiful , and it can also be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to make a key listener .
they &apos;re all back on their way .
and she doesn &apos;t do that very scientifically -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea , and she asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects fail , because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
it &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it &apos;s sending my data to google health .
and there they &apos;re also called off my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only in the moment that i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functioning .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i &apos;m jumping on my wound scale , and people are talking to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salt today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer forced , group forced to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to smoke patients .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play some kind of game together to better control their health .
next week , this is coming to the market .
there will be this little blood pressure measuring device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for something more than 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , not only can they take control , be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us with health care in the face of the challenges that we face , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
make methods that are easy to use and start to hug patients in the team .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect the first data in june or july to collect , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
and they can do that through these methods , but also crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we did , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms of money are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and of course , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked , and nobody knew .
no one knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
now , of course , in a way that accidents are restoring the debate about the value of science and engineering on those limits . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
so what did we do ? we crowdsourced in the netherlands .
we set up a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , when he &apos;s up , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed in business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds were already reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , extended reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
and we &apos;re asking our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits , is the value of things like the lhc .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or somebody else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to do is to ask companies around the world to help us confirm these aeds .
they could be copyright services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us do it and try to not just improve health , but take control of it .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves for environmental protection by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
here &apos;s a quick video of what we do .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i guess , when he defend the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind than to suppose that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumpy is full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just skip over -- i &apos;ll just jump over the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
the spirits can be complained by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to overwhelmingly displace the soul of the living , so that the acolyth for a brief shiny moment becomes god .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is pretty much everything they actually hate , we made them work in the government .
thank you .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peace scorps for geeks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administration .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to the city hall users .
and they developed great apps there , worked with urban collaborators .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freed up when he &apos;s in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at branding when he &apos;s covered by a meter snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
last year , we had a team of fellows in boston doing the code for america program .
i &apos;m a writer .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s done a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never frees these hydrants out .
but one particular fellow , a guy named erik michael &apos;s ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to open it up when it snows .
if you do that , you can name it , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
this is a modest little app .
writing books is my job , but it &apos;s , of course , more than that .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s rapidly spreading .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. division of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them out .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get citizens to clean the clogged gull .
and chicago just introduced them so that people can shine the burial sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
and it &apos;s spread to friction , organic , of course .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
the collection of software typically takes a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method that parents can find out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that the taxpayers have cost two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this on every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spreads from seldom , is kind of a shot in front of the bug on the government &apos;s institution .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , that means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sales institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a huge community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively pack things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who are standing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
however , a recent thing has happened in my life and my career , which has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake when you work and all the other things that we really get excited about , government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up on the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you &apos;re thinking about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was mainly about choosing people into an office .
now after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that communities are all about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
that &apos;s where you usually get out when you call in your city 311 .
this curious event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called &quot; @ eat , pray , love -- which , unlike all of my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he types &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m refused to the decline .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott entertained from person to person .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
turned the garbage bin on the side . went home .
seriously -- refuse the demise !
good night , sweet thylacines . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . here &apos;s the digital hitting the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
and you could have connected them to government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to state services .
for example , they come up to me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you will never meet this success ?
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
and the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white go to church and talk about god .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how many times have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government to reflect our values and fill our needs , and then we haven &apos;t changed much ?
this is because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we did ourselves .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone cares about in the world ? never again ?
people seem to think that politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government is going .
we need to engage in the machinery of the government .
so the occupythesi movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of worried citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the legislation of financial reform .
this is not being politically active , this is bureaucratic being active .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave our children behind .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
okay , it &apos;s really courageous .
do we really believe that what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to get more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build really systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost a generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up looking at your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting , which is why we &apos;re all allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can express your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so , if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
they use their hands .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that , over 20 years ago , when i first told when i was a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to sniff up a hydrant , to hunt , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government paying taxes and receiving services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question that i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we going to be just a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
usually my role in explaining to people how wonderful new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can barely keep up .
people said , are you not afraid to never succeed ?
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single , boring slide .
... if you could show the slide , please .
this is a slide that i happened to choose from my folder .
it &apos;s not about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential on the scale of performance .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in technology &apos;s field .
something very strange happens here .
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
are you not afraid that you are killing the humiliation of a saying ?
so , if you could turn the lights back on .
another bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
and the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a species , and this is any measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say , a transportation technology , that would be very unrational on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if transportation technology was as fast as microprocessor technology was going to continue , we could get in a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
but that &apos;s not going so fast .
don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re going to go after your life and never come out of that , and you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is exponentially increasing every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two possibilities .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of it .
now , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be good ?
something like that , you know .
what is this new state that the world is starting to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was a future somewhere in 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
on top of that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make any sense at the moment to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple projection of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make any sense .
so i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
and the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , yes .
to do this , i &apos;m going to first talk about some other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we have to step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of life on earth .
i think the overall picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did this .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story about this , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was sweeping around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet had a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
but these oil droplet were not alive in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a little random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to an unequal amount .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had an optimal composition for growth faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied in size .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is that when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet have learned the ability to write information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information , in a certain chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless , evolutionary way , they have found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
and what &apos;s amazing about this is that this kind of information is stored over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came from .
and i always had that .
in fact , the recipe is for us , which is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same writing .
and that is , every being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that we can write , just for pleasure , ourselves , things in this code .
we dance in the temple , and we become god . &quot;
and i have 100 micrograms here of a white powder that i try to keep in airports away from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i did is , i took this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i enhanced it 10 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everybody in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been a selfish , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
writing the dna was an interesting step .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
and i &apos;m much more afraid of things that no one would know .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , and that is that these cells began to communicate and share information , so that communities were born of cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s also why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities , which were , in a sense , in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals in the community were more repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition station is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a chain of draw on dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which work together as a single organism .
in fact , we are such a multi-cellular community .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level on which evolution occurred was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step has happened within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed specific structures that made nothing but processing information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently and wondering , why ?
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning has now happened in the time period of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than this evolutionary time span .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a certain fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years to do this information evolutionarily , by the individuals who died because of this fruit , these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process using these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could take place within a time of learning .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most sophisticated version of this communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention if you think about it .
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
is that reasonable ?
i &apos;m sitting here basically giving grunting sounds from me , hoping to create a similar idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in other people &apos;s heads .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , present it .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in this direction .
telephony , computers , video singers , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
you also saw ty &apos;s little example of evolution where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convoltation program , right in front of your eyes .
is it logical that someone should be expected to be afraid of doing the work that they feel like they &apos;re doing ?
so now we &apos;ve raced the time scale again .
the first steps of the story i told you took a billion years per piece of history .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds on itself , and so , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something enhances its change velocity .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative companies that they make us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t ?
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connection machine .
it &apos;s got billions of them .
instead , what i do , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we overcome this machine , and the machine makes something that exceeds our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and she does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot of the time , is evolution itself .
and what we do is we install an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
so to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that emerges from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
now , please run all these randomly chosen instructions , lead all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that i &apos;m going to do the next . &quot;
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
so in other words , i define first what i want .
let &apos;s say , i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used to do that .
so find programs that can sort the most frequent numbers .
of course , the chance for random instructions is very small that , by chance , they &apos;re going to sort numbers , so probably none of the instructions will actually do this .
but one of them may be lucky with a little bit of two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequence that i &apos;ve made the next time .
keep them off , delete the rest .
now , reproducers are all the remaining ones that the numbers have best sorted .
and this is with a method of recombination , analog for reproduction . &quot;
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines from the two programs .
with your chemist blockage , john -- how do you do that ?
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs , which have come a little closer to the presentations than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluating them again .
perhaps bring in some mutations .
and try it again with another generation .
all these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can run through an evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you do the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i once sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , ale , he pulled out a map and said , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits , which work together to make your flight safer . &apos; does that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it becomes too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that is very different from the classic engineering .
it allows us to produce things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow .
but to be fair -- the chemical group didn &apos;t get the call of alcohol manic depressive people over the centuries .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken from the mind . how can you be harmed ?
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we &apos;re going to take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time when one-cell organisms evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but we seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this call , mentally unstable .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i find it very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i &apos;m chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singers of mukhtiar ali .
we talked about how nothing has changed since the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel to indians at the time , we would jump into a car and swirl across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
at the time , when the great indian war prince arjuna durst had , he took a bow , shot in the ground and water .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone that young and often died by your own hand .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it scared me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without a tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years of old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
i felt like our fancy clocks and cameras were keeping us from dreaming .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually make suicide seem to be really neglected by their talents .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to allow magic instead of killing .
when i was 16 , i started to illustrate books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that readers can connect all over the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , animation , sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
norman mailer said , just before his death in his last interview , each of my books killed me a little bit further .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- this says , &quot; this box belongs , &quot; i write my name .
and out of me is a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about such opportunities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean not magic and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to kick the ipad and let the fireflies out .
and they illuminated the path through the rest of the book .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be in a single murmur .
and so every book and every world becomes a little murmur that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magical device in the machine .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows itself in other places of the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
we &apos;ve all heard about feen and nymph , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve become so internalized and collective accepted that creativity and suffering are somehow related , and that art -- always leads to the soul .
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years , in an old bold book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story that confronts itself with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , in their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect pictures with the camera of the ipad of natural objects .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture in a chapter of a flower and tag it .
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree code .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely okay for you ?
so you actually create a digital collection of photos that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a kid in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways that magic connects the world and technology to each other .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of elves that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and in the magic and technology can get closer .
we use the energy of the sun .
do you feel comfortable with this ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and the magic , fun and love of our childhood through the simple medium of history .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social building settlements and places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized that ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and force that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
i find them disgusting .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a family , a traditional african-american household , which was dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a gun , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
it was also the beginning of a lot of arguments in our family .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it go into the next century .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery formed her worldview very strongly .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo akolyths in a trancestate , the glowing coal without burning , an amazing illustration of the mind &apos;s ability to influence the body so that it stops when it &apos;s placed into a state of extreme arousal .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hugging ? &quot;
and if i said no , she would hug me again . if i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she would leave me alone .
she was something that did , that you always wanted to be close to her .
the only problem was that she had 10 children .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative encouragement .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went into the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother sat at the end of the room and stared at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
and that went on for 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came up to me , and she took me by the hand , and she said , &quot; come , bryan . you and i , we need to talk . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
and i know , definitely , that it would be very dangerous for me -- in my situation -- to start to shrink this dark path of the presumption , sort of , down -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in right now in my career .
she took me out , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honor word ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat down , and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i looked at you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i will never forget that .
and then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandma . &quot;
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next , i promise you will always do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yeah , grandma . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , grandma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on the land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack beer with him , my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as we were .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she assumed , and then she offered me one .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , go ahead . we &apos;re going to do this today , you &apos;re going to do everything we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked at me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you don &apos;t still get crazy about the conversation with grandma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
i was devastated .
and it &apos;s extremely likely that all i &apos;m going to write from now on is the world as the work that came after the decreased success of my last book , right ?
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t first believe .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
my uncle died of alcohol induced diseases .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my biggest success is behind me .
and she believed that these were the issues that we needed to take care of .
i tried to say something about our system of justice .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in jail .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are on a currency or on condition .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population are despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , defeated in insurance , or in condition .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either abandoned in prison , in prison , in insurance , or in condition .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , it &apos;s also being deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that treats them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be very satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
my home state of alabama is constantly depriving them of the right to vote when convicted .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at 9 a.m. , and i don &apos;t want to .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male population have continuously lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil liberties is going to be as high as the passed of the election act .
silence is numbing .
i represent kids .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , we have life penalty for children without a conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of processes going on .
the only country in the world .
i put people in death cells .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe , because we &apos;re taught so that the real question is : did a human being deserve to die for a crime that he had ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we found for innocent , that was discharged and discharged from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one in nine is innocent .
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
so the question is , how ?
we would never let anybody fly with an airplane if for nine planes that pick up one falls off .
but somehow we can get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
now , of all the people i met were the ones from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
but for african-american people in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in our nation we have to do with terrorism , after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with this . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the racism and decades of the racist submission and apartheid came .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to maintain a safe distance between myself and my very natural climb on how the reaction to writing will be .
we &apos;re constantly hitting each other .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race is not overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in our country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , they can never be there anymore . &quot;
it got silent . and then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever reconcile to kill people &apos;s systematic kill .
as i &apos;ve been looking for models for this past year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more sensible ideas about how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it would be useless from us to consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we make people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher if the victim is white than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , if the charged black is and the victim is white -- in the same state in which the earth is renting the bodies of yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique sound of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
if we don &apos;t deal with these difficult issues , the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
we love innovation .
this search led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but eventually , these realities are over-shaded by suffering , abuse , deployment , limitation .
i think it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we &apos;re ultimately talking about needing more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to be in a complex world .
to me , that means time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe at the end of the day things that we can &apos;t see .
we do that . as rational as we are , as much as we appreciate intellect .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-tail-heart connection that i think is driving us to not only be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also for the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great checho politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities also have to engage in it .
there is no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be completely human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch you deeply .
as a young lawyer , i was very privileged to meet rosa parks .
ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where they were wearing two of their oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-busykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white , whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
so these women just met and talked .
occasionally , ms. carr called me up and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks is coming into the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what will you do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so refugee .
i sat there one day , and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and told us , &quot; now bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divinity spirit that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for inexplicit , unknown reasons .
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do something about injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocent convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to do life penalty without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and said , &quot; mmm . mmm . mmm . &quot;
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make her very , very tired . &quot;
the greeks called these dienery spirits of creativity demons .
then , woman carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face , and she said , &quot; and therefore she &apos;s got to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think the ted community should be braver .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned some very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true of every human being on the planet .
if somebody &apos;s lying , they &apos;re not just a liar .
if someone is taking something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
as socrates is known , he thought he had a demonstration that would tell him from far away .
if you kill somebody , you &apos;re not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not the things that we &apos;re developing , not in our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we start to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the equilibrium . i end up with a story .
sometimes i push too much .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of bodless creative mind , a genius .
i get tired of how we all do .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and he &apos;s supposed to be on trial as an adult .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result , this people went back to an isolated volcanic massively that goes up above the caribbean coastal plain .
and then i wonder , how did this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he must have magic .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
you should also want some .
this is great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this contract , and the headline was , &quot; contract , my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that misconduct of the state lawyer and the police and the error to be careful .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing wrong with this country , that there &apos;s only misconduct .
the next morning , i woke up , and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed this crazy contract or actually written it .
and to my deployment , i had not only written him , but sent him to the court .
a few months went on , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
i got in the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to literally live in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and would sort of help the artist do the work and make the outcome of the work .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i lifted the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me in the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
and i have to say , it gave me power .
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
it touched something very deep inside me , identity , the ability of each one to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i went to the court room .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you commission this crazy one ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and hired government lawyers and office workers .
in the manuscript , the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
from my eye , i saw the janitor go up and down .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came to the courthouse with a very concerned facial exclamation and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and it bothered the janitor was in the courthouse room .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what are you doing in the courthouse room ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the target from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is swinging a long way , but it &apos;s increasing justice .
that , as humans , we are not completely designed unless we care about human rights and basic values .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that our own survival is linked to the survival of each one .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want to just say to you , those of you who see this as well , don &apos;t lose your goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen an obvious wish in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a folk decision in this spring , which is about actually doing a effort to redirect some of the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
for example , here in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re spending a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the lethal deadlines don &apos;t end with arrested .
56 percent of rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
if your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t make it all for you , and everybody knew you had this bodless genius that helped you .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference is going to suggest that the money is going to invest in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immense .
this fact is often put into a context of increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violence .
it was the misguided cruise against drugs .
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to prison inmates .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
we &apos;ve been ripped off the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever for a bicycle theft , for the theft , slightly good , rather than forcing them to return the sacrifices .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really got a string to swing here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of driving .
two : famine in somalia . speaker three : pfeff spray of police .
everybody knew your genius was a bit of a mud .
4 : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 dead .
speaker 8 : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media prefers to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
every second of every day , our senses are catching much more information than our brain can ever process .
and because we &apos;re not more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our risk detector .
it sorts and goes through all the information looking for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices , which , seven days a week , put all these negative news 24 hours a day , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no more room for mystical creatures to take commands from the divine .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strongly that we &apos;re going to be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity extinctions , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in the very long run , but ultimately , they get over .
in a bloodstream continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so that we can predict the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled that inflation has tripled the world &apos;s average income .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and also , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have decreased by a multiplication cost .
steve pinker showed us that we are living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the past 130 years .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people began to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we keep increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a large percentage of americans who live under the poverty line have access to power , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , cell phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis for a lot of them is technology , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil showed us that every tool that becomes an information technology will make big jumps on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance agent doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this genius , or this artist -- rather than having a genius .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , like in bad times , war or peace , recession , depression and high contrast .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it &apos;s not slowing down for any of our big problems .
moreover , despite her logarithmic process on the left , she goes upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies available to everybody .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something my friends at autodesk &quot; infinite computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production to democratize our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccinations and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
that was great .
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines that i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson defeats human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students , companies , products and services that can benefit the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about the fact that a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
you know ? i think to allow a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteries is a little bit too much responsibility to raise a questionnaire , human psyche .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam for dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold basin .
but the king of siam was given aluminum bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is why the dome of the chicago monument was made from aluminum .
even though aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t occur as py as pure metal .
it &apos;s associated with oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum production so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking about energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet that &apos;s filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy are bouncing on the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
that disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , you &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar power dropped by 50 percent last year .
this was published last month with a study that showed that , by the end of this decade , solar is going to cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have overload water .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
because we live on a water planet .
i think that this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are irritated , and we &apos;re fighting .5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of do it yourself , i want to share with you something -- he gave me permission -- his technology , which is called slingshot , and many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator at the dorm .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a liter .
the head of coca-cola just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , then coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technological innovation that is available today .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
and if that &apos;s true , and i think it &apos;s true , the question is this .
oh my god , we &apos;re going to get the 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just remember that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you look with your smartphone on google , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , medical diagnostics technology -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best thing about this is perhaps what &apos;s expected for us in health .
last month i had the pleasure of announcing , with the qualcomma foundation , the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can actually test your blood values or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to make a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
can we change it ?
if this device sequences a rna or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health agency and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call it &quot; the next billion . &quot;
the white lines are the population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
what do these people need ?
maybe returning to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity .
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic dishes in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be more educated by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever before .
to this day , they are ruled by a ritual priesthood , but the education to priesthood is very extraordinary .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a sentence of new , never heard before .
what about suppressing , wherever you are , giving a voice to pay attention and to create change for the very first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams who are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
maybe not .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know about .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
and there are hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it showed that , today , human pattern recognition is better folding proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , not a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant to the business director in a rehab clinic at night , and was the best protein maker in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropist .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to address the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would actually report really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply feathers to their projects and so on .
and i think it starts with a medical guy , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time enough that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
moneyball is about to appear , and it &apos;s about statistics , and it &apos;s about to use a great baseball team .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard before .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is certainly beating three out of 10 beats .
that means beating the ball in the outside field , it &apos;s coming up , it &apos;s not caught , and whoever tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t make it in time , and the runner was in safety .
three out of 10 .
do you know what &apos;s called a 3,00ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what you call a 4,00ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four from 10 .
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player to meet over 400 times during a regular season .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
let &apos;s go back to my medical world where i feel a lot more comfortable or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold infection , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindfold inflammation .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
imagine that you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your household physician transfers that to a cardiologist whose average performance is at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
why not think about it that way ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
what we do , though , is we send each one of them , including me , into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody cares about the details of how this should be done .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said brian goldmann was going to learn for a blood test .
and it was like that .
and i learned in my little pocket in the nurses residence at toronto general hospital , not far from here .
i learned everything memorized .
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane capability of the creative process .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and the outliers of every muscle , every branch of any artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renale tubulasty azican .
and all the time , i started collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while until i met woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman , printer , was brought to me to the emergency room hospital .
at that point , i was the cardiological layer at the cardiological service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency workers were looking for kardiological advice to study the emergency patients .
and giving back to my doctor &apos;s office .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do anything -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always have a reasonable process .
i studied woman printer , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made crushing sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping the whole blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it &apos;s filling it up gradually , so the shortcut came .
and this was not a difficult diagnosis to do .
i put them in and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure from the heart .
i gave her medicine that we call diuretics , water tablets , so that she would say the fluid .
and over a period of time and a half to two hours , she began to feel better .
i felt really good .
in fact , sometimes he can feel just paranormal .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent her home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the audience , and i did what i should have been , which would have been a phone call on my doctor to tell him that he had a chance to take a picture of himself .
and he knew that he would have been able to guide additional information to her .
maybe i did it with a good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the helpful doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to care for my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
and by sending them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
i had an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet throughout her life . she told me that when she was working out in the villages of virginia , she said she would feel and hear a poem coming up on the fields .
in fact , i felt so much self-confident that i asked the nurse who cared about women printers , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay to go home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , in a way , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the abandoning papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of eclipse stars , in stone huts at the base of the glacier for 18 years , and two periods of the nine years are intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in their quiet mother &apos;s lap , they now spend metamorphorically in the lap of the great mother .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i continued to work .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i lost the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car , and i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency room on my way home .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but emergency medicine is especially because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words were : do you remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse to do a lot .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular tone .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a 50 blood pressure , which is a dangerous shock state .
she barely breathed and ran blue .
the emergency staff pulled all the strands .
that would roll over the country on them .
they gave their blood pressure elevators .
they attached them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was crushed into the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to the intensive care , and i hoped that it would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized she was never going to wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they came to the shoot .
the latest day , they went -- woman printer , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
you say that you never forget the names of those who die .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
for the next few weeks , i made tosses , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it was swinging you on a conspiracy , and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it and gives me a terrible discussion , but when you get the bad conscience at the end , and you swear that you never make a mistake like that .
if you do revival and never do the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick inside .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that what you &apos;ve done is not what you &apos;re doing , but that you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t on the basis of my superconductor , he was very dear .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the weights and making sure i wasn &apos;t going to be sued .
she knew that she could only do one of those moments , and that was -- in her words -- like the devil .
but i continued to ask myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , but surely it did .
i started to feel better .
and then on a cheated day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and maybe i could feel better again .
and i was negotiating with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could be stumbled .
and she did .
and i continued to work .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was only that she had to quickly get to a piece of paper and a pencil , so that if she could catch it through her , catch it and hold it on the sheet .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a community hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a full rage .
it was a lot of going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rage , and it was a little bit pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and i sent him on .
and even as he went out the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my ceo asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient with the rigorous rage ? &quot;
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t get to the house , and the poem rolled through her and she missed it . she said it was going to move on to land and -- as she said -- looking for another poet .
it turns out that he had a streptococcus infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google this , but it &apos;s not an infection of the revenge , but the top breath , and it causes the capability of the breath .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenues of antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve overlooked twice a blindfold .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff going on , especially if you think you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there were no defects in their treatment .
one thought i had kidney rocks .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague noticed that the patient was hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to see him as well .
and he did , and when he realized a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , surgery became operated , and they were fine .
both cases naked at me , asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors only happened in the first five years , which is what many of my colleagues say , but total nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , shame and without support .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish up with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can tell you about the quiet voice , which tells me what really can &apos;t find , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
so , she runs to the house looking for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as she goes through her and then -- she said -- it was as if she had her other hand , and she grabbed it .
how can i teach them my mistakes so they don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about myself .
when did you hear the last time from someone who talked about failures about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about any other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support and start to tell them what i just told you , i would very likely not get to the end of the second story before they really got uncomfortable , anybody would come up with a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i or my colleagues knew that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me that i would have trouble looking at him in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make errors and the ones that don &apos;t make any mistakes -- the ones that constrain sleep deficit and the without constraints , the ones that have bad outcomes and the results that are good .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it on the piece of paper .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we put those who make mistakes out of medicine , we &apos;re going to have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sensation and journalism , i did a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for a first article i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely incomprehensible .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors happen every day , where one in 10 medications is either a false or wrong dose , where hospital infections always become more and more and more and more devastating or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of comprehensive errors .
in the united states , the institute for medicine quotes the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
in those opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology process for a patient with breast pain .
and all this time , they are culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
then i take the same patient with breast pain , and i sweat him and i sweat him , and i give a slightly alcoholic breath , and all of a sudden the story is translated with contempt .
i &apos;m not going to take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this is in summary , mistakes are inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i was taught , and you put out all the flawed health professionals , then there &apos;s no one left .
and do you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
when i heard that , i thought it &apos;s uncanny -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to each of the rescue assistants to the head of the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about your ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show you the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , they came up in front of their head , and then they look down , and they start to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that enables them to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human , white , accepting his humanity , is not proud of making mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning from them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
and it shows other people their mistakes , not just to make a mere mistake , but in a loving , supportive way that all of them benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to make backups that make it easier to make mistakes that make people inevitable , and also enable them to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who observes health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for them , and especially for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for the grading of those .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret . but i &apos;m trying to learn best from that to pass on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
i &apos;m a masonry . to be able to work , i have to get up and sweat every day at the same time , get tired and get really uncomfortable .
it &apos;s about transformative standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use the time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was hunting sparks , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
this is a story that we &apos;ve heard many times about the galapagos or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
but even i , in my masonry species , sometimes this thing was maturing .
yet , we still get to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the shiftable range , the shiftable .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there , because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate myself .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and some mangroves had been surrounded by .
there was a color bark of about 20 inches , black kinnacle brothers , an underwear of the bunk .
the fisheries of this bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well off and earned good on average in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they &apos;re grown to five inches .
they had been genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
and the fish was also fortunate to be there .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source that i really can &apos;t identify .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is told by my collaborations in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fisheries meant countries that already started 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing fishing of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on that , and we made uplifts all over southern southern china , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
now i know it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our beginning was sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reefs .
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck , and then it was thrown back .
what is this thing ?
these images are extraordinary , because the transition is very fast .
within a year , you go through a survey and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed , because , in this case , a hard reason or a soft coral is becoming a matchman crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time we started a life .
she was not drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of rubber is collected by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
it &apos;s not documented .
and how do we relate to this without losing our minds , but actually keeping us with mental health ?
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standard values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because people are very natural for their actions .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of changes .
and at the end , they just want to get the pathetic remains .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
that &apos;s our goal now , largely .
we want to keep things that have disappeared or things that are no longer the way they were .
now you might think that the problem with people who certainly , when they lived in predator societies , were killing animals and became aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously an animal that was very common is rarely ever before it died .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurring animal .
you always lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a great loss .
over time , we focus on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the peinated modern artist who tried to mastery these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and to deal with them .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they will confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in a previous form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there &apos;s , for example , the anecdote that the report of a capitalist soundso , who witnessed large fish incidents in this area , can &apos;t be used or can &apos;t be used by fishermen scientists usually because he &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out , and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystall-clear moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to shine on the hands of the astonishing beautiful landscape , all of a sudden everything they &apos;ve learned in abstract spell . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous amount of role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine reserves , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t grasp , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
so the people who see a marine reserve can benefit from the insight that it allows them to restore their normal values .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that he was driving on a highway in los angeles one day , and it was all changing for him .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched -- except for the pocahontasian story , why were they so touched by the image world ?
because it calls something that has been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron , so he turns &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , you had to , if you had a typewriter , register it in the government .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often inspiring , is very difficult for him to grasp , and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s lechasing after that , but he can &apos;t grab it .
they also had to register a sheet of text from this typewriter .
the reason : the government could track back where a text came from .
found an article with false thought , they could find the creator of that thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do that , and how much that would confine freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but today , if you buy a new color laser printer from the leading laser printing makers and print a page , this page has printed light yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that clearly lets the page go back to you and your printer .
this is what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , citizens .
and this is one of the three main sources of online problems that we have today .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper ; he doesn &apos;t have a pen ; he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the online criminals motives are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge pile of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires , who made their money from attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
this is alfred gonzalez .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song forever .
stephen watt .
bjdorn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they have illegal acquired it by using trojans , like , cloning money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or also keyloggers who have collected our credit card information on the input on the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror in here two months ago , the swiss account of mr. sam jain , and on this account was 14.9 million dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on his free foot , and the locations are unknown .
and i want to argue today that we are more likely to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
the second largest group of attacks we can see today are not motivated by money .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through your audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months , and have become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main flu groups : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous who do it , but the last group are nations , governments who lead the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it &apos;s an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to report insolvence , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a dutch government meeting , i asked one of the leaders of this group to ask if he could do it , that because of the diginotar hack people had died .
and his answer was yes .
but instead of getting in panic , he just stopped .
now , how do people die as a result of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , a certificate , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign vendors like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted about ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversation .
but you know , if you &apos;re in a foreign .
certification agencies hack and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 plundered the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of action .
in these acts , a folder was called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold some programs that they could -- in a very large scale -- could capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters is right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans found , which was a trojan man who was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a crime case , it &apos;s pretty safe to tap your phone .
but today we are far beyond that .
he just looked in the sky , and he said , excuse me , can &apos;t you see i &apos;m driving ?
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojan to occupy their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it &apos;s not because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry !
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
i look like i could just write up a song ?
and while today , in 2011 , we like to trust our governments , every right that we give away is given forever .
and do we trust , blind to any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete block .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measures that fit together .
concrete building blocks very quickly became the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in a position to build things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it was called the automatically compelling stone .
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit , which would take us from a world of static , stacked tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex circles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
if not , somebody else today is squawking .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started studying this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re pre-made , light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them in the wrong way .
the stones are color-coded .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
you add a blue one to a green one , and you can make light .
they can put a switch in between , and so they made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blind person .
add this buzzer to an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or resolve , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn on this button , and it makes the momentum faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a consumable stone .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve spread littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how they start to understand the electronics that they surround in everyday life and they don &apos;t learn in school .
how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator stay open , or how an ipod reacts to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we didn &apos;t have any experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filtz , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and we said , &quot; do something . &quot;
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
not the work itself . it was often as dark as ever .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer made of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds it was lifted up when he took out the genius , where he didn &apos;t cause anything but an anger and left him where he sort of came from , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internalized , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , outrageous thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed a little bit the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of those pinnacles of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . it &apos;s going to be the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst ever .
i started to think i should just start the project .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are the younger brothers who are responsible for the destruction of the world .
but then i remembered tom speaking in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript and i spoke my comment towards a blank corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see , i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross up here and keep your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that -- you know what the hell is .
i &apos;m still going to continue writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i would like to give you a protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people gathered into monthly fests with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- until dawn .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like time was standing still , and the dancer was coming through a kind of pforte . he didn &apos;t do anything but he had ever done it before -- 1,000 nights before , but everything was coming together .
and all of a sudden , he was no longer fully human .
it was illuminated from the inside , and it was lit from the bottom , and everything was lit up through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what this was . they called it his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , allah , god , god .
this is god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquito conquered south spain , they brought this practice . the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah to olé , olé , olé , which you still hear when you &apos;re still fighting and flamenco dances .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical , allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
whenever we think about the native and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old framework of the noblen wilden , which is a racial thought , or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part , the next morning , when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer carrying a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortgage with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never get up to those heights again .
and maybe never again , anybody will call god &apos;s name when he turns , but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe , from the beginning , that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you may just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- from an unthinkable source for a reader time of your life that &apos;s passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done .
when we start thinking about it , it changes everything .
so i started thinking , and i certainly think in the last few months , working on the book that &apos;s going to appear soon -- as the dangerous , scary , very expected successor of my outcome .
so , infants are neither sentimental , nor are they swallowed by nostalgia .
what i have to say to myself all the time , when i get crazy about this , is that there &apos;s no fear .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius , which is on your side , decides for a moment to show a smoke of wonder through your effort , then maybe olé !
and if not , still dance .
and maybe olé ! for you in spite of all this .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
it &apos;s olé ! for you , despite all this , just for having the mere human love and the sense of self to be there .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria veraged swells of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they have yet , through time and ritual , created a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the lower 48 states , has declined 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t express very much the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
now , what does that mean ?
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is the frozen reason to tackle the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s saving , is being transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we cross this critical point .
already , in some flat lakes in alaska methane , they &apos;re challenging themselves from the water .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how will we do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat sheet is warming greenland from the north .
this is an annual dive flow .
it means that a little kid from the andes who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-spirit that can be or determine their fate will become a whole other person , and have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little kid from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of rocks that can be deployed .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through the land ice sheet , it goes into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adding .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has emerged over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water out of that melting water .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a bunch of errors , it &apos;s irrelevant .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra was seen .
this is in the basin .
and the predictions that you &apos;ve read are serious .
this aurochs all over the world lead to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have increased in a really extraordinary and unprecedented measure .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
what &apos;s interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day into the oceans .
look very carefully at the realm of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both across the indian subcontinent , where there &apos;s a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the biggest polluters , along with china .
and the proposal was to build lots of other coal-fired factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been cut in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i thought that these forests are there to be rounded .
and the coal dustries and oil dustries spent a quarter billion dollars last year promoting clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
walking around christmas , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is all over our country the second largest waste river in america .
this is what happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry was this one .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
frosty , the carbon man will clean up every day .
this made me a different person than my friends under the kwakitl , who believe that these forests of the repository of hukuk and the curved heavens and the cannibalism spirits that live in the northside of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers are staying in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set out to spend a significant amount of money on the top line to get an ad action on the way to the truth of coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s make it quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s do a tour of this modern , clean coal-fired factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty noisy .
but it &apos;s the sound of the clean coal technology .
and yet , the burning of coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , which is remarkably clean coal technology that you see here changes everything .
look at it very carefully , this is the clean , coal-fired technology today .
finally , the positive alternative mixes with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
it &apos;s a picture that i just took in the northwest of the amazon last april .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
america is restoring with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
all of these people teach us that there are other ways of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting the earth .
supply of america new . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a recovery of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that we have in our world .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the most powerful psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
supply of america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we need to get far , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to your childhood when you were playing with building blocks .
while they realized how to reach out and access the hands , take the sounds and move them , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my professional adviser patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we were to use computers that , instead of a mouse cursor , moves like a digital fingertip on a flat job surface -- what if we could intervene with both hands and physically grasp data and organize it as we want ?
this question was so profound that we evolved to explore the answer and to siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can detect their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop a conscious mind for their movements , recognize each other and perceive the enemies of our entry with them , then we can begin to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configuring for the video recovery , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it goes backwards .
and these interactive portraits are realizing each other .
so when i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what interests them .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimeyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethane tamin .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
and an interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to recognize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting color in the way that you do with fluid .
in this case , we configured three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to cast color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shoot back a little .
there are also some nice ways in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the opportunity to try fast and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series , which i do with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that &apos;s kind of a mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable randomly dedicated letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested by a dictionary .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get mixed again , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities to try .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomami snuck this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethane tamin .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out , and i took a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are some more people testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the bottom right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
this is an interactive animation manure .
this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , being saved by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s leaving the sun .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s bringing a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
... invent his own story .
it &apos;s not creating a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have today to show you is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed , and in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one wants to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence that you can then order in any pattern .
and you eat them by just holding a ton sift to a sequenc-siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filter .
you connect it to a particular note , and then you tend to hire it .
and then even more over-ordered effects like speed and volume , which you use for the whole sequence .
i even discussed this with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who put the psychedelic ethirea with the discovery of the magical mushrooms in mexico in the 300s , and i argued that you couldn &apos;t put those tryptamins as hallucinators , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable , and put it in a row , expand it , and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter with the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by kicking the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to hook up the filter with the bass ; i &apos;m going to add a little bit more .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i have to expand them or shortcut them in the process .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by pushing the volume left-handed .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be absorbed by a human intestine , of course , because they &apos;re encountered by a human intestine enzyme called monoamine oxidase .
thank you .
so , as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that are better at fitting how our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to show you part of this new design world and some of the ways we work on what we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of advertising to interact with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
i have to get a little bit out of that , and that &apos;s biohacking is doing modern molecular biology .
they can only be accompanied with some other chemicals that mao denatulate .
i &apos;m studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been looking at biohacking for a few years now , and i started that , because i just wanted to know more about it , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve been learning theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like this .
i think molecular biology in general now , which is generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on it , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is , already , and much , much more important is going to be in the future .
there are things as controversial as these genetically engineered plants on the eckens .
there are now craig venter in the united states , trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are things that have come to life that most people don &apos;t realize , like washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry , are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and so , from the interest of this technology , i just kept on going in there .
now the fascinating thing is that the takarboline , which is in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to enable the tryptamins , so ask yourself .
now , why hacking ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then it will always be like this in the media , yes , the hackers will break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hackershot , because that &apos;s not what she actually started out like , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that &apos;s an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started in &apos; 80s with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a problem of access , which is how things simplify , which is to throw any problem , a question up , and how can you do it differently or how can you do it better ?
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also a whole electronics area , and there &apos;s also a whole bastler scene that &apos;s been doing all kinds of things with electronics circuits .
and now , just stop in biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , which is that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i found this incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if combined that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
it &apos;s actually only taken two thousand really forms , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on a network , but now has members or active people around the world .
this is a more artistic orientation , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborators with scientists looking at trying to deal with these technologies and asking questions and processing them creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a more attractive access , having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the u.s.a a network , which is actually more of a forum , where you &apos;re sitting and you &apos;re discussing online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and they &apos;re also asking , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have made this whole popular , it has evolved a scene that i want to take a moment to portrait .
here in the image on the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit association , where everybody can come from .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there and just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which means it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for longer than those other two networks .
they &apos;re also dealing with an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics tinkering , and combining that in a very delicate way .
a group from ankara , which i met a while ago , which is a group of students who wanted to communicate more to the public what they were learning in college , and they did this on the street , and they tried to explain what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , these are mostly quite young people , but the only thing that actually makes you all , is this fascination with technology .
and what you can do with it , and also , quite specifically , to go up and ask the society , like , okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you in ?
so , okay , now to hack biology , you kind of need material .
you need , of course , biological materials , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
or , you know , what you normally understand under a lab is , you know , these are sort of downhill machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
and our approach was just to say , okay , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , it &apos;s really like this .
and s o with this premise with this premise , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimal abor , then took a steam cook , a heat plate , and , yes , so sought brothers , and then grew bacteria , worked .
so anyone who &apos;s been playing a soup that they &apos;ve left for too long has been doing .
so i tried to expand this in my lab at home a little bit , and then i bought this second-hand device on ebay , and i did some d.n.a analysis , and i tried to do a paternity test , which is like this / d.n.a fingerprinting , again , to do home .
now that shouldn &apos;t be a joke , but .
so , down here in the picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s this sort of , you know , a dedicated garage with everything that the university has been doing , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s also pretty interesting things , i want to do a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , which was also mentioned by hackerspace , this yes , a kind of volkshock school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , so , you see , it &apos;s relatively straight , so this is what people are doing in the home alone , all the way up to large , larger organizations that are already doing this more formal in institutionalized form .
but just always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
so , what does that mean ?
the first project that we did as an international group , when we sort of became aware of ourselves , ok , it &apos;s also here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website , the founder , and said , &quot; okay , we &apos;ve got to really meet , also real meeting , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and just after that in the united states , in san francisco . &quot;
and , you know , it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what is our goal , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct like this .
it was quite intuitive , so everybody just had his wishes , his and what &apos;s moving him , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t have that , but that &apos;s it , i think , has been pretty good at it , people are quite convinced of it .
and we actually tried to bring that back to the academic world , but somehow it didn &apos;t get there .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at great distances in the forest , which seems to be a species for our eyes .
now , what kind of projects do we do ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move into that focus , so that &apos;s kind of captured , like a tractor beam , basically .
it really works , it &apos;s done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , maybe we can do that , then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , turned the lens off , then you have a microscope that &apos;s about four hundred times bigger .
you see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart , and we took the killer out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and unfortunately , it didn &apos;t work , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
this is another project , which is from the french group in paris , which is pretty cool .
and he &apos;s got , you know , a brain wave measuring device , like , e.e.g or something , so he &apos;s been doing neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , this is what went on .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
and then the visitors could go in , sit on this chair , sit down on this helmet .
then they measured their brainwaves , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fate project .
another thing from the united states , which also has to do with this paternity story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain reaction , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying , replicating genes , multiplying , d.n.a , fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers in the crime scene , they go , they collect any hair samples , and then they do this technique , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this human being , like this .
and the machines that do this kind of thing are pretty expensive , which you buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at 4,000 euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyarea , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with this .
and they &apos;ve come up with two builders , and they &apos;re like , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve just got open source , you know , free hardware , electronics things , and they &apos;re going to assemble this device , and they &apos;re now actually going to bring it to market , and they &apos;re now the cheapest vendors of these devices in the world .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
i think , sort of , six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it becomes more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very lovely hack .
one project that i started to do recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , kind of like an air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles , and the gold particles , then , into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i illuminated them .
so the device you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , which looked pretty much like this , on a branch like this , put the thing on it , electronics on it , and pressure on it , but it was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a vendor and i attached that to it .
a tender , if you make it full of water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six thousand bar .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in full moon and they sing you in a different pitch .
and then you can accelerate the particles very enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about 50,000 euros upward or something like that , tendons like that .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
so , this is also , at the moment , the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have very little idea , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you did or saw it yourself .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to , as an informed citizen , make meaningful decisions in society and want to talk to you , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
and that then fires under the headwords of open knowledge and citizen science .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
so , as a citizen , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who officially contributed themselves on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a pretty remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know some of you who didn &apos;t get involved .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
and partly with these hackerspaces , so they put these places together .
