you know , one of the great reasons in traveling and one of the joys in ethnography research is to live with the people who still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rainy stones , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important to the well-being of the earth as the biological food web that you know as the biosphere .
well , the problem is , even those of us who are born , have the sympathy for the difficult condition of indians , look at them as orginically and colorful , but somehow constrained them to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , is advancing .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two thousand people have just started .
and hackerspaces , you know , the computer hackerspaces , because the c base in berlin was the first , ninety-10 hundred thirty .
and this has now become a gigantic network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that have happened all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to spread a little bit like that , and then we &apos;re going to be connected to that , so that we can get more people involved .
and i would invite everyone to deal with it , and also try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and enough energy in it , you &apos;ll get there .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is , in 300 years , you will not remember the 20th century , in 300 years , for your wars or your technological innovations , but rather than the era in which we were facing and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not change .
how do we actually work ?
this is a question that really drives me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and most of the things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media , so that they can use this interactive media , and to create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , which are thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can just recreate them through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-technology that you &apos;re looking at is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
what are actually archaic models now ?
i used to write down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them for a minute .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve been able to do in the pre-industrial times .
and the archaic models are that we have basically a natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds kind of unusual for the first time .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
the second thing is that since this archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very visually , even though we &apos;re using a coded language these days .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that the interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the reasoning of linearity , and what , of course , tells us is that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place for us to transfer information .
now , what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove this to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that to me immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and this is happening right now .
they go through this house in the mind , in which they live , and look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality , and they do it without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do that all the time .
and this ability to virtualize the virtual reality , which people have had to have in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything at all .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photoolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory was taking place .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being less on sioux than they were doing bow and arrow tasks when americans stopped being americans when they were assigning horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they just passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s also so strong in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , human beings were also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little further .
what is media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but i &apos;ll come back to that in a minute .
the key tool of information mediation has been stories all the time .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . it &apos;s the ugly face of the rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were addicted to preserving knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong about stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still connect a hundred hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of the time with the recipe of the grandchild who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories .
now we think our love of stories depends on the fact that we were sitting on our parents &apos; lap as a child .
no , no , far missing .
this goes back a lot , in the pre-industrial cultures .
but for me , in the realm of interactive media , it &apos;s particularly impressive that we have anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought an example to you of the north american native tribe of the nootka indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with so-called lead-maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , by the australian indians .
they have similar principles .
they didn &apos;t have lead-type maps , they used the so-called songlines , or grief lanes .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be mapped over songs .
the language was subordered by the subordered rang .
that is , you navigated with sound and rhythm .
and these sounds , and this rhythm , have represented the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , also allowed you to defragment these songs and put them together in a different way , and move back to the left , to the right and also to the starting place .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from the top of a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i recently study a lot , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of the political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened there ?
and this is what happened to us as a genetically engineered machine age .
we &apos;ve been moving in what &apos;s called the avian age .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what &apos;s happened is the book , and what &apos;s happened is the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so unfortunately , we &apos;ve virtualized a piece of god .
suddenly virtuality has become alien to us , and it has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , not the television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call mass media today , is that these mass media of our memories have fossilized and virtualized our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of the lifestyle of people , is not only convicted , but generally , as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little bit of a balance .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has influence on our thinking and our memories ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re more and more exaggerated over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that means , instead of remembering individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can relate to our personal memories .
we &apos;re not producing ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing anymore in images that things stop in images , but we &apos;re coding it to you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things being linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering tibet if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we stayed with is the story telling .
we &apos;re still very , very heavily arrested with the narrative of information .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocal age , we had the machine age , and we now described the so-called cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , they bring us back to these opportunities to rediscover our ability .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a minute .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , inspiration and intuitions that have been generated by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled to lhasa with a young colleague , 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china across southeast tibet , and only when i went to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear of : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , then one of the things that makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world is that our monkey to virtualization is to feel the virtual as something that is normal , natural , is reviewed .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we are physically moving in unexistential , virtual worlds , just like the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambient , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligent to a human being .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and janitz trash .
and the last two are here today .
maybe you can stand up for a minute , so they can pause with the two of them about the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed again .
the father of this young man was identified as the tag of the panel lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to have some people in front of some console , or that they &apos;re playing with some kind of console in their hand .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for outside .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s targeted for me to explore the outside world , so that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , so the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain this in a much better way , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and it &apos;s about exploring a city by looking at where positive or negative places have been tweeted .
that meant that during the chinese invasion , he was killed immediately .
and so , from the city , i get a very different view , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different , virtual map of a very real city .
and now we can look at that .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , and that is , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vow age , and that we &apos;ve gone a little bit blurred in the machine age , that the cyber age , in this way , can be reactivated in what we call the cyber age , and that we can , in this way , get over complex , technological , new products , not really into the future , but actually come back to us to our roots .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked , is this sack there a talking bag and is going to be mine instead of speaking ?
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her sacredness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers .
i &apos;m a creator of the house , so , of course , i &apos;m also looking at the subject of curiosity , and how the curiosity also changes our thinking , and why we might lose curiosity and need to rebuild it , and so on and so forth .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re looking at besides the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the designers begin to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up there , because things are supposed to be more and more intuitive , more natural , more user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually for us humans , of course , what is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- for the crime to be wealthy .
and in the background , i &apos;ve been involved in natural user interface design , so the next generation of human computing in the relationship of the human computer is how our tools , or how the computer is changing from the computer sucessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at what &apos;s natural or intuitive .
maybe you have to look back at it again .
why is this happening at all ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , briefly represented here , then we move from the third into the fourth generation of society or the social form .
so from the modern into the computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that means that you &apos;ve found yourself talking to one common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved to the same cave , or you &apos;ve moved to other areas , you &apos;ve been educating cities , or villages , and you &apos;ve kind of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock board , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
now , you also had to learn , so no small child can speak by nature , but we &apos;re learning it sucessively and proportionately .
this was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
that was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you start manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and i throw it in stone , and i manipulate it .
and depending on how i do , and when i do , of course , it &apos;s a very different kind of coverage than if there &apos;s a lifestyle .
but sucessive then moved this script as a primary medium , received in .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today was primarily .
this is just the pressures and print written with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just as a monkey , where adel , klerus and others have said , you &apos;re really insane when people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to go into the next generation , and the exciting thing is , this generational shift is only every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase that we &apos;re doing this .
this , of course , completely confuses us because , on the one hand , we see the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
the sister who did this brave thing was brought to an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no more beef or other phenomena , which is , i want to just toss this up , and i want to cheat it .
and these two worlds are just cracking up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not at a local level , but at a global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not when i think local , and the neighbor thinks less ecological , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitively , but also total transparency .
as you knew in the village then , who has what &apos;s going on with whom , and when , this is what &apos;s happening today over this expansion of our self through these mobile ending devices at a global level .
whether it &apos;s that we &apos;re aggregating knowledge globally and aggregating faster and faster and better .
one day , she walked out of sight on a armband maos , and for this treadmill , she had to go to a heavy job camp for seven years .
just as it used to happen in the village .
now , i &apos;ve been looking at the background , and i &apos;ve been looking at this , but what does it mean for us , of course , what do we have , maybe what is instinctive for us , but also instinctively , so what makes the difference ?
because people often come , they can &apos;t use it in a way that anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it should be better .
and when is , of course , a little intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , influence it and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and easy to use .
you &apos;re looking at it , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s where you start and look at it and say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside the self .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it actually mean , of course , intuitively , and how does our channels of perception work , and how does the cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetans can be intolerable , but the displacing spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitive , which means that at the core .
and this is where you see that a our seven senses , most of us think we only have five , now it &apos;s seven , and it &apos;s seven , i &apos;m sure , in the near future , the next , eighth sense , and as an extension of ourselves .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand at the core , in nature , when does information become information , when will data and information know , again , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , handable .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
we see this here , when i design things , then i can confuse them , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
and at the end of the day , we really have a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonies or a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a vessel , but i kind of see directly where is salt and pepper in there .
and when i say to someone , give me salt or pepper , he &apos;s going to be thinking on the right where it is .
and at the left , just intuitively access , and then hopefully that no sugar in it will give you the salt .
but also our perception of ourselves , how it &apos;s fooling us .
for example , this perception in the context .
the right circle looks bigger than the little one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , staggering , generic view of the world , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we woke up from a dream and forgot that there were other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is already starting to correlate or associate some similarity .
and then if i &apos;m going to put a halboval in there , we &apos;re not just going to see one more unit , which is circle , circle and circle , but we &apos;re going to see a unit , we &apos;re not seeing more three , a circle , a circle , another one .
this is something called the design law , or the design psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape-shifting law , shape law of continuity and so on .
often in the third , they forget again .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things that are very intuitive .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s kind of exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see from the back to the front .
that is , they propagate a premise that they see something they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just going to project our vision before we see it , put it back in the back of our sehedron to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got this kind of cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve got something that you want to see .
and that &apos;s also there , and then that comes back .
then it goes back to the front , because the back is not looking at the front , and it says , well , really look again , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re looking at what you &apos;re seeing , and that &apos;s what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what kind of millisecond areas these things happen .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , we went to the cult of the seed of the seed grain , which replaced the poetry of the shamanas through the prose of the priesthood , and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- was only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who of you knows this picture .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes something .
anybody see something in particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you always see it .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now that you no longer recognize a pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning you in a very short time to see this dog in this very confused picture .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now , i know , and now i &apos;m progressing forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which then happen in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s just here in this pink mass .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know , something takes three seconds to sort of take me out of the present to the past loop , i can also bridge very good wait times by engaging someone with three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the next millennia .
that &apos;s what he has to do first as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what takes five milliseconds ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period in which you fall in love .
that means , contempt , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for , which can happen that way .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed of how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they respond to 10,000 different voices .
and as we also see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of making sure that we &apos;re going to be able to think about our environment , so we can think about it in a way that way .
of course , the designers are not only dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing , or cognitive engineering , but primarily , of course , with the subject of human-object relationship .
so how does a person deal with certain things ?
once you have the product language , you have the practical functions , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions where i know exactly where i have to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does anybody give a little bit of a pie , where , anyway , hardly , what fits in , so horrendous sum of money , even though it &apos;s not that practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the level of significance that we &apos;re looking at as a creator , of course .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface , and the subject , which is , of course , behind it , is usability .
usability always means , how can i get to a certain destination , or how can a user , in a particular context of use , effectively , efficiently and satisfying a goal ?
so it &apos;s more like the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance of being able to flourish a space for all human and gardens , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible to use friendly ?
can i serve that directly , or i need the n manual , or i need to have a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing it differently and more beautiful , doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better off .
you also have to understand that .
and then if you look at the software that we just saw , in part , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive or not usable , the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , although it &apos;s much more intuitive than classical software .
now , intuitive use is not only since apple is a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i just want to use technology to make people possible .
why ?
because usually through this new kind of usability , which is the natural user ínterfaces , for example , five times faster on average of our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softrware , it takes you five hours and with this new kind of natural software , just an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph that i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be able to go home for four hours , but your employer , or someone , will come up with the four hours .
but i want to say that for us , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance , also to achieve certain things .
so when we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have already been working with the nem neural model , or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop to make the computer use .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
it made it a lot more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better than that .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to form the behavior than it looks .
it &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden i look more and more unimportant for success , just the usability becomes an application .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and over the course of the 50th years in the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move in settlements .
and then if i go one step further into this natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m in voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , by mouse , by cursor , by cursor , i have to control things , i &apos;m even faster and even more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point , when do things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to sort of punish my little friend here and see , what does that mean from the point of view of cognition gonomy , when is it really intuitive ?
and this is always a little intuitive for us when i have to think about it very little .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he just wants to make it reasonably easy .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transmit existing action models from one to another , like the metaphor , then i can use that as a creator .
that is , i can just put an intuitive human action model on a software and make the software much more user-friendly .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve been telling you .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for orientation , select , inform , transcend .
that &apos;s what all of you do all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already leaped in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit , by itself , is going to be about 50 to 70,000 times as much activity as we do in sleep , so you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s going to be less often punished than the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer transaction to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of usability than that of the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i translate this now , for example , in which i orient as a supervision , selectively , as a choice , inform in the trap , it &apos;s big for me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transage , i can also throw it somewhere , or send it to somebody , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are , and what we &apos;re capable of as an amazingly varying species .
the family that was afraid for his life took him all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
overall : now i &apos;m interacting with the object , i can zoom out , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , now i can filter on this , and i can say , just show me all of the things with chocolate , for example .
and all of a sudden , have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab the things like the bits , touch them , and they come to me , is far more natural than if it comes across hierarchically organized websites , or other mechanisms , to be able to make these things accessible .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to close , a and again , the clue , and designers also have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very particular aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you &apos;re a kid , when you &apos;re a baby , is that you take care of what &apos;s going on , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play more or less in the pottery and arrest , the more , in a sense , their curiosity , of course , gets woven .
and curiosity can &apos;t be learned .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to use it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and curious are , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
what i &apos;m talking about now is basically implementing this whole environmental discussion , world demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give you + give you scale about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorph mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the glides of their sled were originally made out of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it away .
now , amazingly , what we &apos;re doing here is we &apos;re looking at something that is actually self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everyone is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have for two years of phosphorus , and already , through phosphorus mining in the world , a lot more uranium is being used in the environment than in all nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , 50,000 tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re taking .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the falling storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way that i would say , shake your child , beat it only three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weighs to the bathroom , our entire earth is going to be a cemetery , sooner or later .
that &apos;s why thinking from the weighs to the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over 60 percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , and he left his pants out of the sea , and he defected in his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or at the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we reform .
of course , we can look at the waste problem first .
and it &apos;s all package or content .
in openness , for example , the garbage is 20 percent of the garbage in the middle of the windmill .
and as we get older , the diapers get bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of them in the pre-winding phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand winds .
of course , we could reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalist knife , and when it was completely frozen , he was amazed by a dog .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these diapers ?
this is one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs over the solid ingredients of excrement .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s evidence , right ?
he held the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sleeping , put another dog on and off the ice sheets with the fecalia knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people who are talking to people to exist , if you say that &apos;s better , you &apos;re not there , they &apos;re going to be elusive and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , when you save a life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on the earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , as far as they are vegetarians .
that means the ants weigh much more than us .
this is how you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work more physically than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , they &apos;re about 30 billion people in energy use .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and as you can see how far away we are from what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we &apos;re on earth at all , you can see that , for example , openly has a program , until 20 , you want to be here climaneutral , right ?
you can only be climate-eutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this is , in many ways , a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily , not , right ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still a billion trees in the amazon area alone , six billion trees .
you &apos;ve heard a little bit about overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most striking bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back in circles .
and we &apos;re too many .
it &apos;s just about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit back in april of 1999 complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-farming , no bioland , no natural establishment system , and as all of you name it , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was very discarded , it happened with the ethnosphere -- only at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can extract our nutrients back .
we &apos;re doing agriculture in brazil , where we &apos;re regaining the nutrients .
right now , we can get back nutrients in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste right away .
in china , a news pot is still called honey pots , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we &apos;ve always been too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has only always taken away , but never given back to the farmers .
so cities had to grow more and more because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they stopped the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been brutally able civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring back the nutrients .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;d expect to eat in china to stay until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for the food theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to get the nutrients back .
the really nice thing about this is , if you do this , you do agriculture , you create biogas , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , so a farmer can produce about a thousand and a half hundred dollars and wait for the plant to grow chickens and pigs and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over ninety percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recovery with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just farm them .
that means that the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred and a half in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter alpot , and then it would be ruined over the years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not at all removed .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do what you want to do , write down , in germany , the best way to do it is in all the sewage facilities that are in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openness , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankfurter facility could best regain phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going to work out .
we &apos;ve been in holland for three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
but we need it all together .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seventy percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil reserves .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but the phosphorus is not going to be replaced .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s asking what the right thing is .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , for example , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really , really , yes ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
here .
this is not exactly right , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much stuff is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but completely effective , yes ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic eventually is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , it &apos;s efficiency .
asking , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the enlightenment mud a little bit better and overlay it and lose all the materials in the incineration facility for cycles , but first of all , how do you close circles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a plate of open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that means everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is just the right thing , right ?
at every point you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in the way we think from the north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
156 nations send our tv channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is just going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash the soil away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how are you going to do with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heart-to-heart , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so don &apos;t save , get rid of it , avoid it .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust , when you see in italy , people in the high bow like this , throwing out coke can out of the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refour behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are about to die out , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biological diversity -- is barely what &apos;s known as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re entering a series of travels into the ethnosphere , where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders that they &apos;re blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one by one , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world , where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not all to be composable , of course .
a television machine , or a washing machine , you just use it , you don &apos;t use it .
it &apos;s just the things that disappear , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , that have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company now to make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yes ?
so , when i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we realize what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given to microsoft as part of an exception just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either be local or removed with vast amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all useful in it .
these are the first shoes to put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go into biological circles , right ?
all of it is composable of it .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and for mauritz and for the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s sewage problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help , they ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the chairman twice now .
and i &apos;m not sure they &apos;re really staying there .
so , help me a little bit .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can seamlessly and continuously pick up , swirl , rearrange in any way .
but it goes .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been represented .
this is going on .
we can do things now so that if you &apos;re going to swallow , if you &apos;re going to break , you can go into biological cycles .
there &apos;s also a technical cycle .
there &apos;s a direct backname system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , which is designed to go back into the cycle .
again , in every store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are or how big the images are .
do you remember the windmill ?
right now , the waste is .
all over the place , these diapers are almost over .
in the countries where people come to money .
there on the deponies , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside that you can go back to cellulosic base , then you can plant a baby in israel or in tunisia hundreds of 50 trees .
yes ?
just when you take these winds , you break them down , you sterilize them and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for all of life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a domain of 300 megapixels .
it &apos;s sort of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there now , and they can all be engaged .
there &apos;s an extra cluster to this , cradle to cradle , where everyone can participate .
so , not saving , getting rid of , avoiding , reducing , not management of guilt , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at every moment , and it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it says that i understand , as an interpreter , as a translator , as an english word , as an interpreter .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to transmit the word for word into a different language , but you have to understand the deeper sense of words and wortzusm slope , so that it gives you a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already translating german into english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first only have the written notes .
you think the composer wrote into the notes exactly everything he &apos;s imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description of landscape , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is to only experience , not to listen to the acid of the wind , not to feel .
that means that the interpret has to translate the exact indians of language into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today , i want to give you what i would like to translate to musical language , which is to interpret , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally significant for me to translate the translation of the translation .
so the ones that music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the noted notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read grades and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the point of the letters is , when you can see the language .
so it takes for the learning process of music to speak at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there are also divisions of whether you learn it for the use of care , just passively understands or you can talk actively , until the musical native speaker .
the work of the interpreter starts very similar to the work of a theater director .
after choosing a piece first to play , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re looking for backgrounds of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the dayboards , the notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of the composer themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you put in comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting , and it &apos;s not a picture .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in this .
you think in that time , by looking at contemporary images , for example , or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpret , you have a rich knowledge of the composer you play more and more , and it makes you easier to think in and feel in .
the composer is becoming more and more of a friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now , since the notes are anything but an accurate record of the subject of the composer , it &apos;s just a framework , i now turn this framework to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator for that is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i &apos;m going to explain what these sounds might mean .
now for me and for the composer , then , and what you might mean for him today .
every sound , every phrase , it makes sense , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my personal life now .
it has to be true for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i &apos;m allowed to have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve spent as long in advance as i &apos;ve been revising .
how to reexperience a happy new day over and over again , although with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same piece over and over again on the new .
again , i &apos;ve gotten a day older , which is changing seasons , my pulse is slowing down at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back home than it is at home .
i take the breath of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me , and all of this is also affecting my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s wonderful , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , excited conversation .
you bring a new idea into it , and in the same time , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried and you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you , as the audience , have then experienced how the music is communicating alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the same way that i am right now .
i can &apos;t play the way i do in 20 years .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and therefore , on my palette of music sound , i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , much more emotions and emotions than today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , and i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
have a nice example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was still too young so that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , at three years old , and so i &apos;ve been on his classes at my school .
i was seven years old when i went back to one of his courses , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late piece of work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballade was for me .
this is such a commissioned part .
and in my adolescence , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a piece .
he was already over the age of six .
well , at the age of 17 , you have dreams , but you don &apos;t have any significant memories .
i &apos;m going to play this piece every few years today , and it &apos;s changed for me , although not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because over and over , i read something new .
one example of this from a very different area : monet painted the seeroses x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the seeroses in a different way , as he saw it , as they were doing at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seeroses .
the x-ray interpretation of a piece is comparable to that .
by now , i &apos;m older than chopin at the age of two and a half , when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he lived only 30-odd years .
and it &apos;s important to me to keep looking at the notes , even though i mean being able to memorize them .
to keep twin practices right with the composer .
because the grades are the only connection to him .
especially if it &apos;s already died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as it takes for the spoken word .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you basically learn to read first before you just talk one word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
then , if all the fingers in time and the way it &apos;s moving in the notes , then sounds come out that sound like music .
when that happens error freely , the student gets the next tough piece .
interpretation is hardly spoken in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s presto in the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and silent signs , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most people here know .
but even if you implement these attacks , it &apos;s still a little bit more technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something quite fundamental .
that is , to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing this , because he didn &apos;t pretend the parents , he &apos;s not going to do it by himself .
that &apos;s like learning to speak .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and the idea of music , and then bring it to another possibility , through an instrument , to sound .
people who have never been singing have never felt instantly with their own body , what it &apos;s like to form a sound .
to make a phrase with its own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm of dance .
the continuous narrative today with music is not promoting it .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is made when you &apos;re constantly sucked with music on the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask you , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
in both , it &apos;s not too late to start to figure out if you can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal bones , right ?
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained to them that they &apos;re intractable .
so i ask , how skilled was this diagnostic ?
have you got a second or third opinion , as you say today beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix .
what i would regret , though , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still agree with them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an exceptional candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand any of the classical music .
i can &apos;t say whether it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to create these constraints for the available place on the screen .
and i say , but i &apos;m sure you can tell whether you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get out of food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so they don &apos;t have to get into classical music because they don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and tell you whether you like it or not .
whether the music is too peppered or too sweet to you .
tell them what they feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want to have some more spices there , or they even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience to be active to listen ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this is no longer a pop-ups and other nonsense -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
an artwork that you never look at has no power to work .
the food that &apos;s been cook by a chef or a chef lovely has to be eaten , and it &apos;s not just looking at or trading recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where adults make active music , or at least listen to music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child is playing , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower now .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano at all in bachs as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if it had the sound possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now make the notions that the bach has had on the modern wing sound , which a barockes cembalo can &apos;t do .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra , at the time , has rejected as a non-playful .
so the composers are dependent on us to reinvent the pieces again .
so they become audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to contribute to this area as well .
and also , what you would think of in the mind today .
or what i &apos;m going to do today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been envy ?
and what did that feel like ?
shredded .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v w piesel and i &apos;m wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s.a .
i say , ulf , what do you need to do with this big car ?
this is already losing half of his value in the first year .
and in fact , you work much less than i did .
why do i have to afford that little car ?
and then i immediately think that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as envy simply to disappear .
you can also try that with words like revenge or revenues or something like that .
i want to tell you about this mechanism today or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overwhelmed at the top of nasa &apos;s persistent picture .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention of building a wall .
and then he tosses stones so that he loses the vision .
you can see on a lie like this that the liar himself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just fooling you and not himself .
no , the lie that i &apos;m talking about has to do with deceiving yourself .
you need this lie to keep a livelihood lie in order to sustain self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , examine , or even fall .
they need time .
now let &apos;s take something else out .
from that time , an anecdote that you may know .
spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained , the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answeres , just wait .
it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is , and how much time it takes to learn something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disruptive relationship with lying .
the artist is telling you something , and especially this lady , what she doesn &apos;t see when she &apos;s just looking in the mirror .
the artist tells you in such a portrait something that you will only be familiar with when you look at this artwork over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , and it &apos;s not going to look like you , and it &apos;s going to be more and more like you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifestyle .
and not only in art , even in the folk , in the mythology , in stories , it comes back up .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who &apos;s the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from this real outcome , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , can &apos;t escape from this true outcome .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
this is what it takes to get under politically correctness over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that sustains deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
we have , not only in art , in the folk &apos;s poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth , which really connects two different technologies together .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischoir of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , this is probably not true what charles wrote .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it doesn &apos;t work .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that livelihood .
because we have this self-deception , this sense of being great , of the highest creatures , not of such a natural level , of something as unpredictable , of an organism that still exists , like a stone , and whatever , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t sustain these things .
we need to prevent people from getting knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism dissolves , and what the traces that it leaves , which lead to something else but this great image of ourselves , i want to bring you to another story .
a particularly beautiful story , like me .
my wife told me .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she said about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes it especially because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m at the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyro-technical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healthier at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral jurisdiction uses the word because , we should try to replace it with the word , even though it is .
do that once , and then you experience the sentence .
although i &apos;m at the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyro-technical things .
you feel , that &apos;s the actual truth behind the outcome .
it &apos;s a little bub that doesn &apos;t really care about fireflies .
it &apos;s interested in making fire .
but there are no clubs to which we can look around , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , just the fire department .
now a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he was signing up .
and you know , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere , and you &apos;re delighted when the fire blows up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can only do when they just lay fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this one indicates that inside the bub , it knew that it was actually related to the fire , but it can &apos;t say it loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps up immediately , without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
and that &apos;s just how the words that we use in the language of the politically correct speech over and over again .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see this , if we create these kinds of views , where we can penetrate through images and make this experience more resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we &apos;ve found in my institute .
what logic does this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one we actually know about in the unconscious world that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
i want to give you two , maybe three examples .
the first example predicts what many of you know , and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not of a stop-metabolic , material nature .
and if you have people in front of you , who are so persuasive that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , they think it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not out of matter , they &apos;re just made out of meat and blood , something that &apos;s kind of stone , to the earth , which is devastating , degradable , unimportant , dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and from that soul , you think that you &apos;re kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , in latin , the air thylacine .
and then , when that air thylacine comes over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is supposed to be present to our lives .
and if you have that premise in mind , then you understand the logic that we &apos;re experiencing that happiness , through a lie , to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you still know three sentences from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have collected these images to the real space , in which these images that were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and they &apos;re seeing elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all relocated in time .
this is , by the way , the hardest part in my talk .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie so that you can just apply this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , clear claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if klaus is right , he has no soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted it in particular here .
a third sentence that appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who has no soul , it &apos;s dead , and it can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i still have time to show you other environments .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say , the kanzler is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the kanzler is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statement about what &apos;s going on .
there are some that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he has no soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately , you can do something about it .
it depends on a third sentence , which has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assumed .
because actually , we would have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic , which it simply uses that two sentences are logically correct and attached a third one that looks like it has to do with it , so we can save our livelihoods .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we first worked on in summer to show you what i think is really the punch of this technology , the photosynth-technology technology , and this is not so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things on different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example , which fills the newspapers over and over again .
you have to have another philosophical topic , a permanent burner from philosophy , present .
this has to do with us going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have this soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same hairs in the middle between two big hairs , it &apos;s starving .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how nature is presented .
the same big forces with opposite signs , they resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if it immediately makes the one haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason at all .
it &apos;s automatically running to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , then you also quickly have the sense that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and sometimes you say wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who only happened in the computer with images of flickr , just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get images of men in t-shirts and on the university terrain , and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as listening to this model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day is what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of willingness , can &apos;t be drawn to his actions and claims for responsibility , and therefore he is inadequate .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove that there is such a thing as willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of foresight is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , if you meet a human being that you can then say , there &apos;s no prediction .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is called prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in the same way in the space .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit of a politically incorrect .
you say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one that , of course , there are predictors like this , you know , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making sure that you can &apos;t prove that there &apos;s no prediction , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about this because he deceived them .
because he &apos;s led it to a staircase that he doesn &apos;t stop himself on .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free of the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of the evidence burden , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a way to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember your self-lie that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea .
i have to say honestly , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to try to imagine you .
but of course , it &apos;s the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably part of the two nice girls , i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been for this bad green image , because i &apos;ve started studying machines in carlsruh , technical college , which is , i think , kit .
and then i was struck by berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t exist in carllage .
you know , i never believed i was going to work at microsoft eventually .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
it was all called kfa at the time , even the jewish was kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but it &apos;s like a doofes like solar pendulum , which is sort of a hundred watts out of the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collectively .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the authorities .
it just happened to be that there were self-administered alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in cross-country in the countryside , where you thought the evil was .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called the fuzzy electronics , and it made wind and solar energy , and i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is touching me very , very much because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve lived through .
i worked in the collectively for 11 years , which was basic democratic .
we were 20 people .
when one said no , the vetoprinzip , which was completely crumbling , and for 10 years , i &apos;ve had a hard doubt about whether i &apos;ve been wasting my great engineering study , maybe really , really , really , awakened at an insane thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have been talking to him , you &apos;ve thrown out the money to the window in your kid .
it &apos;s about weakness .
and this was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and this was a picture where i asked myself , after 10 years , a thousand d-marrow , that was still , you know , basic wage , uncertainty in the collective , of course , should that be the great thing .
and then i did it up to six and a half , and then , along with friends , i became a co-founder of the company solon , who became one of the world &apos;s largest cell manufacturers .
a huge history of success , but of course , again , we have the problem of a growing company , and we then have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and dedicate to the next topic of the future , and that is , of course , what we think it &apos;s like , again , it &apos;s crazy , and that &apos;s going to start with people saying , what &apos;s the gossip , that &apos;s not all going to happen , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and that &apos;s where i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : everything is in the process of the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we &apos;ve just begun to ask a relatively simple story , where could you use a memory of purpose today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a renewable energy rate of 15 percent today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have any more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you put more wind together , the system starts to fail .
i always tell the politicians , when they go to berlin adlershof our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the weird ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated that was two thousand in 2006 , and the first contacts with the island just started to compute .
how big a battery would have to be , so that you could get an island like 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventy percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go back to another slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power is built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is being wiped out with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
this is fast .
you put that kind of box there .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the process , always three of the tiles , two are always waited .
yes , this is what one looks like down there , it &apos;s just the burden .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system , which can only eat in small amounts here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the diesel is going to be back-up and the wind , and the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger proportion .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy per year , which is energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
that means , at the moment , you have to make sure that the renewable energy , in a way , can take over the entire net .
you can only , of course , be manned in some way here .
no one in the world has done that .
this is in a small way , so you can also use your razor in the car over a small change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershof ?
this is already going on .
but if you want to put together several of these interfaces , and they &apos;re going to build a net , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to 70-odd percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you &apos;re going to do it from batteries .
it will definitely be an energy carrier , who then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas you or sh , it will be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was recorded correctly .
you have to go to a seasonal memory , and winter summer , and not just tag-night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , normal electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a lot of simulations .
and we simulated wind and sun and the burden , and we came to the conclusion , which is a very exciting result that you can get across the conventional system , which takes about 50 cents per kilowatt-hour after 20 years , about 40 cents per kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper like the same system when the same price goes up five percent per year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
i &apos;ve been negotiating with investors , looking for new social sheep .
we were only five people then to rebuild a society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this el , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the electricity company on the island , has meant that we love that .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric conditions of the island on the scale one in three very precisely .
that is , we &apos;ve been looking for the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment , and it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- of the entire collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes from asia , naturally , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s you can see , it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it has a megawatts of performance , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size as it stands there , put it into the hall , and actually the entire dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the back of the diesel , here &apos;s the big battery , and here &apos;s all the judge that we simulate the net .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of cable physics , to sort of map the vibration behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
and of course , we share all the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all of these photographs are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see the one again , again , this is the one , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousand-nine , the hall has been finished , until now , basically , two thousand , 12 , everything that was here between the individual system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we think of ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the battery and the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty is that , in fact , on this island today , you can take away everything from the problems that we &apos;re going to get when we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it moving back and forth right now , energy , how is it going to go , for example , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent accurate energy , so we &apos;re going to tire the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start , on the island , starting to integrate electromobility , to ask , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re in 70-percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without storage .
they get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through smart grid , you can build the nets , yes , you should do it , you can hear the percentage , but you &apos;re never going to be able to completely get rid of storage .
and that &apos;s the message , you know .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in , and they look at it , because you can see what the problems are .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just a noisy , rotating mass of big power plants , wherever the wave is always the same around europe .
we look in this web , we see the fifty hertz , and when it becomes nine comma nine hertz , we catch some valves , then we go back to a little merh steam , and then we come back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is unbelievable .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
consider this the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers to virtual earth .
and in that time , they can react to other things again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , this rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can take this big battery out for two milliseconds and turn it out .
so you can see , there are enormous speeds of speed .
and the message is , we have to rely on these rotating masses , if we want to sort of get our goals to 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run is simply called the power plant to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal plant , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gastorbines , because it &apos;s not going to be .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also bringing electrochemical storage to the net .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now .
and this is something that &apos;s grown by the complexity that people use to use , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and then , for that purpose , people always come and look at our experimental level , sort of , at our island level .
and yes , the discussion is all about the question of , how far can you take a piece of far future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years were similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
if you don &apos;t , it &apos;s weakness , it &apos;s a child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceivable .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
it &apos;s very simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is , i &apos;ve just experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed with metadata that a different person has entered .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , even to put 10 megawatt-battery battery on the german web .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanes , they make themselves autark , they have their own little web , they have nothing to do with our interconnectedness .
the question is very simple , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out somewhere in the world , and then you &apos;re an island .
then they &apos;re just using what &apos;s on the sun and the wind there , where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m cradle-to-cradle also grateful that they said they used solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing , and in this way , also the talk from premium cola , is that you can be a collective again , and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and all right , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be quiet a little bit crazy and also have a vision .
if someone has been in trouble , and they &apos;ve labeled all these sacred and told who they are , then my photograph of the emergency of stee-cathedral will suddenly be enriched with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , using photos of other people , and therefore a kind of overwhelming social experience with the use of other providers .
and you really have to stay there , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , colomnist the los angeles times , went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin , who had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos; article , later on , a book that was filmed with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx as nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassist who studied at the juilliary conservatory , and whose promising career was trapped early by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos; book , or watch the film , so that you can understand not just the wonderful interconnectedness that has emerged between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was the instrument , when that word game is allowed , the mithalf , nathaniel , to get away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and came behind the stage to imagine me .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton , and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of this because of the tenacious passage of the first violin in the last sentence by beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , all of this is the immense , virtual models of every interesting part of the earth , which were not only preserved by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying nathaniel was interested in self-education .
i have to mention that nathaniel had a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappeared in the streets of skid row for days , always exposing this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in the same way that a rice stage was nathaniel , when we started our first lesson at walt disney concert hall , and he had this irre flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he was talking about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in sleep .
i was afraid , not opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could fall into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin , when i started talking about clay and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardens .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathanian &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible pharmaceutical reaction , a chemical reaction , which was my catalyst .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin , and he started playing some snippets of violin concerts , and then asked me to end up playing them : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i know only from my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music is changing us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so it escapes its agonizing states .
do i understand them right ? their software enables you to have a certain time , in the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world together are basically connected to each other ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
this is why we make music : so that we can create something that is inside us all , deep inside , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united us .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the replacing power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at it .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether it &apos;s in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i have stolen the cellist in a disgupta .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tastier , good consistency , sustainable , bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called , and asked if i could talk about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want to , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what this unimaginable problem was for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish , the one we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the heavy fish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so i think it &apos;s going to be , you know , bad aquaculture , fishing , part of our future .
a lot of arguments against it . fishing plants are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a food processing of 15 to one .
that means you need 15 pounds of wild fish to get a pound of tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so , finally , here was a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of the public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed from our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think of the abundance of semantic information that has a lot of these images .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . i set up .
and that night i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i was telephone with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephony with the leading biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the website has a lot of information about what the image is .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the leadership , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous enjoyer and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , you know , i swear to god who was smeaking fish after this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost glowing white color .
then the volume of semantic cross-linking and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least the way you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of guadalquivir river .
blaise , this is really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what was essentially wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make sure that was working , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental consciousness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally moved the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- barsch , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and in the process , miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is flooded channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin , and part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we were fighting through the wetlands , and i was clutching and sweating , and i have mud to my knees , and miguel is quietly holding a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glide .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here he sees a pattern of strings that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then he goes , and he falls into more talking about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community of unplugged , sort of like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak over this boiled piece of delicious fish that i had in the evening .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-esteem .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that your animals don &apos;t feed ?
later on in the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we looked at the most incredible , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your practices , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was totally confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you get your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we &apos;re losing 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , there were 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s now the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last one you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly , the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize our citizens &apos; well-being , it &apos;s mostly through the maximization of the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish rising , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there .
they breed in a city of 240 kilometers away , where the ground nature is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 miles .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly to the farm for 240 miles , and then fly it back at night ?
the reason for this is that freedom in itself is good , valuable , meaningful , an unreliable premise for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do that because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this badly , coated taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin works like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing things for ourselves that maximize our public good and nobody has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to look at uncleaners . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any disputes . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their fish , a farm that measures their success at the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that has no disputes , it underpowers tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the guadalquivir river .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers today tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , flow of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this leaves the water clean , as it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it decreases in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and you should do that , because that love story , as romantic as it is , is also insightful .
you might say it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about barsch or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey people , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just feeding .
a billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not in total production .
well , i don &apos;t like that question , because it &apos;s determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
more grain of vegetable food , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chickens to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a business in disposal , a commercial that quickly feeds ecological capital that allows this production to happen .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of decrease , but because of decreasing resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , not through fishermen boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deeply in our water supply that no one in the sense would come to question it .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are obenan , and it &apos;s never really produced a good thing for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what returns to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , operations that are restorative instead of using up , operations that are expanding extensively , instead of just building intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deep in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also the experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to take you through one thing today , it &apos;s that the total of the data that we consume is greater than the sum of their parts , and instead of thinking about information overlapping , i want you to think about how we can use information to create patterns , and we see trends that would have otherwise become unvisible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram of age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a particular cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle section here , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most affordable over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , when we go on and we sort it by age , let &apos;s say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are even the main cause that people should worry about .
and who &apos;s continuing to see that this is particularly true for men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way , it &apos;s very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
you can dive into a decade with pivot .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to be young children anymore . that means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually already dead .
this is my supermarket . it &apos;s not a big one .
you can jump right to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m going to click on what all the spending is in which lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just wanted to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with bicycling ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to step back , and i &apos;m going to take a look .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look , or you don &apos;t just browse .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now , i want to take this idea a little bit further , with something like a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaseite , and we &apos;ve reduced it to a small summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the domain that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediacatories that are most likely to cover time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipediaset .
that &apos;s only to recognize when you take a step back and look at it .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essions that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad of dessings , in the improbable case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some , less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music sector .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can now jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time , as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from page to page , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just going to show you the new york times website .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump right to a specific segment .
so this is important , because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in my course in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve kept to this point .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and , if i take a step back and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory , maybe looking for my search past , and here , i looked for &apos; nepotistic &apos; nepotistic , here to bing , or to live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the site and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the databases .
right now , in this world , we think data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information overflow .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of going from one to the other , we could start to go from many things to many things , and see patterns that would have remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then that data trap , maybe a new source of sensory information becomes meaningful .
and then they go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , stronger . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge .
and if we know , then maybe we can even pull the wisdom out of it .
i &apos;ll stop with that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a corresponding portion of science fiction .
in my school , i drove to school with the bus , an hour per day .
and my nose always stuck in a book , a science-fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts into other worlds , and in a narrative , satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also turned out to be that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i was going through the forests , and i was walking around and sampling , frogs and snakes and beetles and ponds , and bringing it all home and looking under the microscope .
i was totally science enthusiastic , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can put 6.5 million different stereo together from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of miracles that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to this science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor this overlap with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected them on the canvas in our heads .
my response was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook , drawing around .
creativity kind of had to be out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
now , i certainly would never meet an alien world with a spaceship , and it seemed quite unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all of what i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to get diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , a thousand kilometers away from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t discourage myself from that .
i buffalo , until he finally found a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border , where we lived .
i made my scuba in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later , when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have now been denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat ocean , is as rich in fascinating life as we can hardly imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know any limits , unlike our own , clear human imagination .
to this day , i feel deep awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner story , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a kid , i was always drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that fit together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science-fiction area , &quot; terminator , &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of interfered .
there was a time when i was a boy , and you could have every phone provider you wanted as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened at &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we went back to computer-generated animation , cg .
what came out of this was the first computer-generated software surface-figure ever to see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring any money , and in fact , he just played his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , the advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and that was very exciting to me .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be really involved in the film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
and together with ilm , we created the guy of liquid metal , and the success depended entirely on how this effect would happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we were playing with the film a little bit more money .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , there was a whole new world , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
so i started a company , along with my good friend , stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at that time called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analogous processes with optical printers , etc . , and start right with digital productions .
and we did that , and we made a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature-and-a-design , what we actually started the company for -- we started to get too slow .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was to push the brass of visual effects and computer-generated effects across new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made using cg , and the main figures should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was very , very much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we were not able to do that yet .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and juliet on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic dimensions , a passionate film .
but secretly , i really wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by the silence , to be one of the last of your people to speak your language , to have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
and a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced you by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
this is enormously important . it &apos;s a good marketer . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but this goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we then actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
it wasn &apos;t a movie , it wasn &apos;t a hd , it was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep-sea diving gears were like a space mission .
well , they were also highly technological , and they needed extensive planning .
you get into this capsule , then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you can &apos;t do it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science-fiction movie .
it &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was quite obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect for , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and for the science at the time that we saw them , had not found any words .
so that really blew my mind , and i wanted more .
and so i made a little bit of an unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher . &quot;
and then we started to dive to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we returned to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped up a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it . so we developed the technology we needed .
well , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at the planks that look very similar to these boards , and i know that the band used to play there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the hallway of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just doing it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically inside the titanic wreck .
this was the most surreal form of a déjich vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i was bowing around a corner , i always knew what was going to appear in the light of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run through the movie set for months when we were making the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the blueprint of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars , so you can put your own consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all sorts of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science-fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we had seen down there , for example , these deep seals , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are sort of alien , but here on earth .
my favorite one is the middle -- mp3 player , nase-hairs trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was the science fiction effect of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space , and who have to do with nasa , and they &apos;re sitting in the nasa expert , and they &apos;re planning for real space missions , and they &apos;re going to russia , and they &apos;re going to go through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going to take all the way through it , and they &apos;re going to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it occurred to me that i took space scientists into the deep sea with us .
i took them with me , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually did science , in fact : space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science-fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i &apos;ve learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you think a director has to be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at some point i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going on ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re just going to play the cost of production . it &apos;s not a trace of fame .
everybody thinks i was between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar , &quot; and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people go into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task of the will , the challenge will -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that is there . you do it in the smooth way , and because of the strange connection that comes when a small group of people form a team .
because we &apos;ve done all of this with just 10 to 12 people who &apos;ve been working uninterrupted for years , and sometimes we &apos;ve been in lake for two to three months in a row .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to the country and say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the jellyfish , and all the way around , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you work on the sea , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other thing . that &apos;s like police officers or soldiers who have gone through something together and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you deserve to the opposite respect of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood there again with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
and by doing this , my way of making films completely changed .
there were people who thought we had really taken these ocean creatures and transported them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we do from all this ?
what are the lessons that we &apos;ve learned ?
i think the first one is the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the attention of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a piece of advice to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
you get others . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself . but take risks on yourself . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploration , it has to be an alternative , because there is a guarantee of trust .
no important endeavor that required innovation was ever taken without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with , and failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time job in the foundation is mainly about vaccines and seeds , to get the things that we need to invent and deliver to allow the poorest two billion to live a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate change deterioration means that their seeds will not grow over many years , and we too much or too little rain , and things will change in the way that they can &apos;t stop their fragile environment .
that leads to starvation death . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important to you .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , if you could reduce the poverty rate , energy would be far more effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy progress .
the coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an older person dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life , which are much more important than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
you add the output co2 , which leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature elevation has some very negative consequences , and effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change , and where their further consequences are , there are some unclear things , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences will be , but they will be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get close to zero ?
doesn &apos;t reach half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying , we have a 3.5 foot truck , which has to be under a 30-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath it .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go all the way down , to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everybody on the planet .
and somehow we have to create changes that will bring it down to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have influenced it at all , and we have to go from a rapid increase to a reduction to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of those numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , they go to the doctor , and the doctor tells them , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s moving to nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we &apos;re seeing a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food that we eat , clothing , tv , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction , which means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number is going up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to deny and use less , but on average , that number is going to increase every year , and therefore more than double , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there any light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the home building , there are many services that some individual services can reduce by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playspace for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor of three or maybe even a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough !
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get this to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today is emitting co2 , except renewable energy and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to a particular date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually you &apos;re just kind of wrong , and some are coming , some are not .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked it .
the idea became really tangible for you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that leaving fireflies would be here to the environment , this year &apos;s contribution .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;m told they &apos;re not going to bite . they &apos;re not going to even leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of playful solutions like this , but they all don &apos;t bring a lot .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have an incredible scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions in which people are looking for it , i really only see five who can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if you do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core message here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they shy us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to catch all the co2 that comes out of the jornstone after burning , under pressure , and then warehouse somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but it &apos;s going to be very difficult to get , and to get an agreement for the co2 storage is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the warehouse question .
who will make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally millions of times bigger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solved , and that &apos;s why you should work on them .
the last three of the five i &apos;ve summarized .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and also the wind doesn &apos;t keep blowing .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big price challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also have to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where else .
and there &apos;s the warehouse problem .
and to show the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made , for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i &apos;ve been comparing that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that &apos;s going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches right now .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to bring these interrupted sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to be 100 percent of it , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where are we going to go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on it . hundreds of them .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many people will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already involved there .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we were all just talking one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let them be cantonic .
the result is -- we call it patient autonomy . it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for somebody who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in nuclear ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means instead of a part of uranium , one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never have reason to simulate whether it was going to work , but since then there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it , and you can see that , yes , with the right kind of materialistic approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a propulsion material .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a wandering wave reactor .
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy them .
this really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve taken the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the uranium .
that drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you film water cheaply and simply , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to achieve this 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we &apos;re using the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed world , and we &apos;re on the way to getting it to the rest .
this is terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what would that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reductions on the way . the less we emitute , the less the carbon sum will be , and therefore the temperature will be lower .
but actually , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t lead to the big reductions , is just the same , or even less important , as the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
these breakthroughs are what we need to do with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there &apos;s a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there &apos;s a lot that has to come together .
this is a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just allowed me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , half-free energy cycle , i will take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term thinking will be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice as this slide should show .
so what do we have to do ?
what are the things that i appeal to ?
we need to use for more research .
when countries get together in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous funds spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market tanks , we need co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find more billion more , the regularia and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s running the way it &apos;s promised , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is as different from nuclear energy as we know it .
in order to understand this right : this means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . now , you &apos;ve got to refill the reactor all the time , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out there . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they buried , without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there , and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor who provides a solution to the garbage itself .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor , and you keep burning it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . this is our starting fuel .
so what these reactors have been a problem is , what we fill in our filling , and it &apos;s dramatically reduced the waste volume during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in actually doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet determined a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting revelation rules for everything called the nuclear , and there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that &apos;s been made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built this , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and likelihood , to really start this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then we have 20 years to spend .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if it all goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , it could be easily held .
and luckily , today there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds that , just as their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be the best way to do it , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
given the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had and they got married as quickly as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but they might say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and that &apos;s why , if you can deal with the problems , and that &apos;s basically the radiation , the footprint and the cost , it plays the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to bring in emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to get a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a line of research called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay warming , so that we could get around us 20 or 30 years longer .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work at all on insurance , because maybe you &apos;re going to do it lazy , so you &apos;re going to eat more , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientists : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative impacts that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of pressing problems to invest in something you have later -- and you get the investment that &apos;s not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it not emitting co2 , i almost wish that it does , but i &apos;m going to accept it , because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be their answer to the björn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the poverty reduction , the fighting of malaria , and so on , that there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest in it , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
underneath that , other things should not suffer .
you get too much money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people , if you have something that &apos;s not economical , and you try to fund that , for me , most of the waste is going on .
unless you &apos;re very short before a breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach them wonderful smart students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new masche is now , &quot; why is the research not going to talk about anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he &apos;s understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a mindset that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter of tape , about a factor and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on the top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work together very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share with you some of them .
most people usually start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
they &apos;re talking about it , they &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re running around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and they lay out spaghetti .
they spend most of their time in assembling growing structures all the time .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow , and you put it very gently on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da ! &quot; admire your work .
but then what happens , almost all the time , is that the ta-da is going to be a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they &apos;re asking themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst of them are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they make really badly shapes .
and of course , there are teams that have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best ones are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s quite amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produced the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how does that come ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what children are doing differently is they &apos;re starting with the marshmallow and building prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have a number of times the ability to fix bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get instantly feedback , and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most of them is about five inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-enhancing geometric patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team is going to win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills for processing accompaniment .
you run the process , you understand it .
and that team that is regulating and paying attention to the work is going to significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to do to you and not get a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
i was trying a little bit more exciting .
i thought , well , let &apos;s put the poker in the same way .
so i offered a $ 10,000 piece of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a five-inch construction , they would have put the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so the same bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the lowest time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic stance , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this kind of simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
you find crazy examples from all over the world , how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world record .
and the fundamental lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connecting sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our feelings and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , that the wirelessplan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go into the past , you can go into the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve asked my friends this question a lot lately , and they all wanted to go into the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars , or twitter , or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re going to do : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heel .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make in terms of work , over and over again , whether we should or not work .
so there should be a nine of them at the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today is expected to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . phew .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have only threatened one generation , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our mobile phone on the one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphoma , roman , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the successes of the scientific method .
and from my point of view , the scientific method of trying things out is to see if it works , changing it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world .
drinking water , urgent land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re disappearing , and soon enough , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of that chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re watching our child mutilate a football game , we &apos;re also asking ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is , can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder thinking .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never used scientific progress as much as we do now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , astonishing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds and 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we have fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven more of these things than now , on more fronts .
people are wrapping up in their faith , and they &apos;re so tight that they can &apos;t be liberated .
not even the truth will liberate them .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re not right about ?
they have no right to their own facts . &apos; debt , don &apos;t have them .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccination for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to bump into resistance , to resistance towards what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were in a particular way , rather than a random way , put a handle on the nature area .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it will certainly be your experience of the football game of your child very different from it .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we submit , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and eventually i figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics , who made me crazy , were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship with progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a matter of choice .
we &apos;re talking twin about it .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with little leadership about &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost faith in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just call some names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , demand evidence , demand evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get the evidence , you have to take that evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen , and hopefully will never see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the maser , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very frightening .
well , studies were done to see if this was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from the u.k. , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , none .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government leader who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do that .
i mean , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
disasters because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world in which the vaccines for masers are falling .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened is that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody have masers here ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masers ?
doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we &apos;re living in now looks like this .
doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths by masers , 20 an hour .
but because that hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst minds in humanity .
no fear , no quantum , child paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotaviral vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 40,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop complaining .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids are going to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
take them away , go back to the diseases , terrible diseases , and this is happening .
we now have masers in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon children will die again , because that &apos;s just a matter of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masers .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i &apos;m a little too shrimp . &quot;
nobody ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to do a bad job of what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody got on a plane this morning , and they &apos;re going to los angeles , and right now they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and he rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these amazing ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to hip ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you jump .
i know you &apos;ve done that because half the americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find out they &apos;re useless .
the data always shows this .
they evaporate their urine . they do almost never .
that &apos;s okay , you &apos;d like to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishingly cold and soulless to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from it , and where are we going ?
we run into the poor of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what does it care ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to even decide .
and you know what ? you &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer quacle , who wants to treat his patients with caffe-rung .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other disease placed by this disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
well , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of volunteer aging research .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersilie , every rose coat , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we &apos;ve gotten rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it . and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment acts of vanguard , the gigantic fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want a huge field with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was , per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
that has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work , because we &apos;re afraid that we &apos;re really in a dead end , and it holds millions of people from bloom .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they &apos;re offering 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees than if they were only offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like manioc .
maniok is something that eats half a billion people .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it &apos;s got no nutrients , it &apos;s got no protein , and scientists are building all this in it .
and then people could eat the food , and they wouldn &apos;t be blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
now , there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i really mean different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which to choose to pick it up in the morning .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for greater food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we go on as we do , we &apos;re guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description for what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop it .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
it &apos;s in the present right now , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine , and we go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , this is something the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for some time . it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it the way i do , as &quot; a deception that becomes something real , if someone believes in it . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills , in some studies , have shown a measurable effect , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes only enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means that the decisions are so hard that they &apos;re missing large investment workers from their employers .
a deception becomes something real , because somebody perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;m going to explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study ; my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to hold the knife like this in my fault .
i &apos;m going to push my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put together my wrist right here .
this is how you can see that there &apos;s nothing going on at any time , and as long as i push here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand up , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife will be held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in his place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve , or comes out , no animation , and they can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in the room know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing disappears or comes out of my sleeve , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i &apos;m holding my wrist is because it &apos;s the actual secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who had no childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it &apos;s processing information , not counting it , one , two , three , but seeing it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what it &apos;s all about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
this trick you can do to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago , or something , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
what it turns out is , if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin tablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and color these blue ones and shape a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more measurably effective .
and this , although none of these are any pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
they really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that made me really freak out .
but it turns out that this is not all .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re more effective than tablets of any form .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
also , the dosage is a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an uneffective -- a few milliliters of an uneffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong image in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill , which doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in that it &apos;s a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that is obviously a deception , and make it look real .
now we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when it &apos;s supposed to go to the point .
this is an eight-inch long hat needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp . and i &apos;m going to sterilize you a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less happy with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my flesh . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special cultured meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now , i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to go through it , until it &apos;s going to stick it back on the other side .
if you &apos;re in a bad way -- if you &apos;re going to fall slightly into the otherness -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has almost become powerful .
so i &apos;m proposing that if you &apos;re going to get bad quickly , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first healing part here in the back .
you can see it in a second , but you can also see away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little bit of a einstein .
i &apos;m really sorry . is that crazy ?
and now just a little bit out of my skin and on the other side , you know .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had in the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid , it &apos;s going to smash itself through the skin just to give us a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this kid from the barasana northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they mythologically came up with the dairy flow from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is required by the big selection of different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happens is that bilateral alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the satisfaction that you made from your decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side of the room are now coming in .
let me show you from the nearby .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can turn this around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look at it .
the people in the back , or the ones that will see this later on in the video , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , it would -- you see , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was really real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret at all that is disappointing to the choice they make .
but i think , in this framework here and with the intention of doing something real from a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage like that .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;re looking forward to it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happy coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mainly going to be about these cognitive trade-offs .
secondly , what economists call opper-tune costs .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these fall is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word &quot; happiness &quot; is simply no longer a useful word , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something we &apos;re going to have to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third one is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a situation that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; -- he said he heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by saying how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it to .
and then he added in , really , quite emotionally , which ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two types of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present , and the present is able to experience the past , but basically only has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is looking at -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it hurt when i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memorable self , and the remembering self is the one that counts and sustains the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are a lot of alternatives to consider , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that they exclude , that makes them less happy with the alternatives they chose .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two of which are confused is part of the very different notion of happiness .
well , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we tell ourselves stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who are undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s no longer painful today , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to talk about their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who &apos;s suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection as a patient b .
the stories of the reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very destructive or great -- but one of them is clear .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is far worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse is where the pain was at the end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know ?
because we asked these people about their reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than it was for b to remember .
well , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the memorial itself .
from the point of view of the living self , b had clearly a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical trials , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually stretch the reflection of patient a , just letting the hose in there without shaking too much on him .
this is going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit and a lot less than before .
and if you do that for a couple of minutes , you &apos;ve made sure that the living thing itself is worse at patient a , and you &apos;ve made sure that the memory itself is much better off of patient a , because now you &apos;ve given patient a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hampton .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
so , what a story is , it &apos;s outbreaks , it &apos;s important moments and ends .
and the end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and they ask : what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds . which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you kind of get the impression that you should be counting , that what happened during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource we consume while we &apos;re in the world .
and how we use them would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory itself for us .
so we have the memorable self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the transition over time .
from the point of view of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first one , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they haven &apos;t changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memorable self from a living self , and time has very little influence on that story .
beautiful beach . great day . they have it all for themselves .
now , the memory itself makes more sense than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two reflections in two different surgeons , and decides which to choose , then the one who chooses the memory is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be elected .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we usually don &apos;t think of our future as an experience .
we think about our future as predictable memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory itself , and you can think of the memory itself as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we &apos;re making vacation largely in the service of memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we feel about our memories ?
this is a people who don &apos;t cognitively distinguish between the colors blue and green , because the celestial scene is equal to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn , &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often in relation to how often i think of other vacation .
and i &apos;ve probably been enjoying my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 images in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , this is three weeks , and this is at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of it , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everyone in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you pick another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and it &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about it in the sense of time , you get an answer , and if you think about it , you could get another answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we have to choose with a choice between the two species of self .
well , the two types of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
in fact , there are two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a fairly complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living itself over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or happy the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being who have long massed the exploration of happiness in this particular way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey , where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and about their experiences , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two species of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their lives , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he &apos;s lost the opportunity to have a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone , and you were to tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you &apos;d know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that someone has put their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their own living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of happiness itself .
we know money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mostly about being happy with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two species of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppersia costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we chose is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement of well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason we can &apos;t think about happiness is because we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question , how happy are people in california , you won &apos;t get the right answer ?
if you ask that question , do you think people in california have to be happier if they live in ohio ?
and what happens is , when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thinking itself that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could go to california at the end .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who are moving to california in hopes to be happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more options there are to choose , the more attractive properties of this choice are in the opper-tune costs .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we talked about the phone a couple of weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something you can let us participate in , because you &apos;ve got a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we had absolutely not expected .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living itself .
if we looked at how feelings are varied with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a large representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they &apos;re getting more and more unhappy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line above that .
i mean , i rarely saw so flat lines .
what happens is , obviously , money doesn &apos;t get you an experience of happiness , but the lack of money certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , of memory itself , you get a different story .
well , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the whole american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people take this finding seriously , i mean , it all seems to be on their head , everything we believe , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , that the country would generally take a fund like the seriously and make politics based on it ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of the research of happiness in politics .
recognition is going to be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are acknowledging that they should think of happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life rating , so we need to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think and whether you think about the remembering self or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe doing things slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the years ahead .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this is going to be part of the national statistic , i think , in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or at least the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i &apos;m designing computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online .
but one of the things that &apos;s important is that whenever you decide for one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute for the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that it takes time to be 21 billion hours a week of play .
this may seem a little bit disgusting first , so i &apos;ll repeat it so that it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so essential to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a peculiar language and a secret rule called the linguistic exogamie : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it &apos;s going to be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings in the game , so before the players , he built a camera .
this is one of the classic expressions in playing .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might get some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , quite deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you &apos;ll see some nuances here , the eyes zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows are surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . so , prima . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so overwhelmingly positive that they didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they get there , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of something like this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is on the verge of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem solvers around the world , when we take the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are against all the adversity on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yes ? ok .
that &apos;s me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. , why we &apos;re better at playing games than in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good in reality as we do in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , although that &apos;s part of it .
we &apos;re getting more in game worlds . i mean , i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think a lot of us will turn into our best version at any given time , are willing to be helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel overwhelmed . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think you couldn &apos;t just achieve anything ?
how can we transfer these feelings out of the game into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you go into one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , and immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a job that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edges of their skills , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you &apos;re not sitting around and you &apos;re twisting . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there &apos;s a lot of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that very simple in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingertip , you &apos;re ready to have a staff .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a kind , and they bought them , and they were poorly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they were wearing them long enough and often enough washing , they started to feel ok .
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one and plus-one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to be on the edge of an epic victory at any given time , that we &apos;d rather spend all our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
so far , all the world of warcrafers have spent 5.93 million years together to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so , to purchase new jeans after many years of wearing the old one , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we &apos;re currently spending playing games , it just makes sense when you look at the time in terms of the magnitude of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we &apos;re able to do as humans .
we &apos;re developing collaborative thinking , heart beings .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young man of today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is an extremely interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact sum that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the degree of high school -- if you &apos;re never missing .
so here we have a complete parallel education , where young people are learning exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they &apos;re learning in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want a snake , slightly underlying or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a random subject to the 21st year , we will be mastering in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world are .
so , what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what are the players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have kind of unprecedented human potential .
so many people now in the world , who spend at least one hour a day playing online .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it .
do you want to wash buttons or buttons ? stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile phones , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
you &apos;re expecting an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started to think about what it &apos;s like to master these games .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , so imagine how extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a barrier , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of dense social nets .
do you want to do jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we like more after we &apos;ve played with them , even if they &apos;ve defeated us .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that someone spends time with us , that the rules are kept in , that we have the same goal and remain with the game .
so playing together enables the growing of bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcrafts-player is playing 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play games , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we &apos;re relaxing or not doing anything .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
want to cut down , heretical , blah , blah , blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe territory of planetary outcomes .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective , and you probably know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information on the world of warcraft on the internet than on any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as individuals , they can change the world .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses that are spoken in , because of the absence of six or seven languages , is that you never hear anyone who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i would like to have the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness less than a mass emigration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and that &apos;s an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelmed .
so he says , this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can connect stronger social bonds in games than in real life , and they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best fit jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s now completely logical that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start to turn the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years back .
there &apos;s this ancient cube , out of sheep &apos;s needs . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there was sheep &apos;s need .
and these were sort of the first of human beings to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you might know this story , the story of how and why games have been invented .
herodotus was invented by games , and they were invented in the kingdom of lydia during a famine .
i had better . all this choice made it possible for me to have better .
there was such a famine that the king of lydia decided to be a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity , that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating on one day and playing the next day .
same thing , i think , is what we &apos;re doing today .
we &apos;re putting in games to get out of the real world &apos;s suffering .
we put in games to get out of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , all that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need out of the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
herodotus didn &apos;t get any better after 18 years of famine , so the king decided to put a last cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two .
they played a cubic game , and the victories were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there were food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came up with the idea that herodotus &apos;s crazy story actually is true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try to explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people by playing , by flipping into games for 18 years , and then having that intuition , and learning so much about playing with each other , that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcrafts series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cubic games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should think that half of us spend an hour playing a day , until we &apos;ve solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world ? &quot; and that &apos;s the question i &apos;ve dedicated my work at the institute for the past few years for the future .
the reason i felt worse , with all of these available possibilities , my expectations of what makes up for a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want to do is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empower people to put that idea into reality .
we &apos;re imagining epic victories , and we &apos;re giving people the opportunity to achieve them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try to give people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i didn &apos;t have any concrete expectations when they were just in a way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been doing it since over the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained the habits in the game .
so for the next world &apos;s game , we &apos;ve got a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the calculation of a supercomputer , that people have only left 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn well , one of them should have been perfect .
the call for players to sign up , we &apos;ve designed almost like a jerry bruckheimer film .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream team , &quot; and you have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-strust , and only together can you save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say , everybody &apos;s in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job of creating the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social transformation , &quot; in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities all over sub-saharan africa and inviting them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on this . we have level high for local understanding , knowledge networking , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree with me that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to connect close social nets , urgency optimism and desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing meaningful games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me these games .
when i look ahead in the next decade , i &apos;m sure of two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world change games .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had been disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago when i was writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always done my synonymous dictionary in writing , but i &apos;ve done it with the work of texting , and i &apos;ve noticed that i &apos;ve never been looking in my life , which means the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;ll read you the entry .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curve , helpless , useless , destroyed , dead , mutilated , wounded , aimed , lahm , separated , abused , balanced , impotent , capped , paralyzed , handicapt senil , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , repaired , destroyed , broken , abandoned , abandoned , injured , injured , including injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list out loud to a friend , and i had to laugh at it , and it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; oriented , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk any more , and i had to stop reading and start collecting me after this sort of random flood of emotional shock .
of course , this was a franchise , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the output must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting with elementary school , and starting to build my self-image outside my family circle and form , even in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
adding possibilities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities will be .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m going to celebrate the chances and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expect to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this contract .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under &quot; near antonyms &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you say is loud can also manifest itself .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
even one person , being mindless as a child , could be enough to constrain them and overcome them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors to you ?
a person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s an italy american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just done for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physical therapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly , infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these benches more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. and so i tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he saw me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and fuzzy -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to rip one day of one of these benches .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because , if you did , you all wouldn &apos;t know what it &apos;s about .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick from dr. p. , so that i could do the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do with the prospect of being the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i was able to think of myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethal human beings .
this is just one example of how adults in power positions can drive a child &apos;s imagination .
but as the already quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries show us , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something we would all wish to do : to enable anyone to see themselves as powerful people .
our language backwards the social changes that have been triggered by a technological change in many cases .
of course , from the medical point of view , you can say that my legs , laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and to develop across the boundaries that have given them their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , are able to give their own identity , define themselves in their own way , and to orient themselves to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt , is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to say something to you : this sentence has never adapted for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable about answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of adversity lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being shaped by the associated experience , as if my life had been so successful , because i could extend the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing , of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotionally or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to curve to make better sense of our lives .
adversity just belongs to our lives .
and i tend to think of adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s barely seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to put the impact , or the hard of a man &apos;s fight .
there are adversity and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is going to do it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with adversity or not , but how we deal with it .
so we &apos;re not only responsible for preserving the people we love from the fatalities , but also prepare them for getting good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we make them feel like they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than everything was worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things : one , the medical fact of being amputated and the other one , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly saying that it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people we care about , and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical projections , or even to make a prediction for the quality of life that they &apos;re expecting , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t actually disabled .
maybe the current concept is just looking at what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for each one , a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t fully treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive and acknowledge all its forces and all its possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that they might have to lead to , another disease .
we degrade a human being who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the areas of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great ingenuity .
we should not deny or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we get them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the vienna .
i may be more interested in realizing that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embracing it , packing it on the opf , and also using a fight expression , and maybe even dancing with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we are wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we can think of adversity as something natural , coherent and useful , and we can &apos;t feel so badly through their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed out to something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its kind , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflicts emerge creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that the human ability to survive and flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to change through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut from when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of adversity , a sense of i.e. , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give a new meaning to authorities that go beyond difficult times .
you &apos;ll never be surprised , because your expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can see adversity as a change .
there &apos;s a change in adversity that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve done to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to get to know this poor , gray person , if they really did ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could replace this paradigm of normality to another set of possibilities , or strength , to even make it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen has found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience in the survival of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come up with -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city that i grew up in , into a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel tomatoes .
it was summer , and i had shorts on .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around , and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can barely remember me .
when i first saw her , i got her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i knew only about my mother &apos;s narratives about this day , because , of course , i was very typical , at my birthday , i was late for two weeks .
my mother &apos;s prenatal diagnostic doctor was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born with no legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i only had a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bridge , and this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and they &apos;ve just punished me since then . &quot;
and what i found really extraordinary was that he &apos;d collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a spelling competition in the second grade , whether i was on the track of the paths in the parade to hallodn , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he was using these snippets to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of life of a human .
and dr. kean kept saying , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they &apos;re not told anything else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids alone , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
look , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone was dealing with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over the course of time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 if i had swapped my prostheses against legs of meat and bones , then i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated one second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not despite that experience .
and maybe that change could happen too , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors , rather than meeting people who want to constrain me or to overcome an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to show you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate your own inner forces -- the human mind is so receptive -- if you can do that , and open a door for someone at a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to create something that is in one place to tickle the potential out .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted in 1958 .
but abandoning is not always such a bad thing .
again , what kind of potential do we want to call ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasians were transformed into whole schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided after grades .
and the a students are tested tirelessly , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month-long period of time , they gave students a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note &quot; very good , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks the heart to you , that the inversely told the one-year-olds that they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had thrown the school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t informed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad seat of jeans if there &apos;s only one way to buy is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-on-one students , and they were the students with the grade , and they were teaching them something , and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind , a mind broken , no longer a hope . it can &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate capacity for imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human mind , to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around us to find themselves beautiful , to be curious , and to be imaginative , then we really empower our forces .
when a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and a new kind of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques demis tells me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the boats , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he &apos;s just saying , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or you want to be fitter , stronger , more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask , why , who is responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who &apos;s always been looking for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to read that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all about education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been an ongoing topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor on the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , that would be a very good time to turn off your hearing , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you the permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about error , because nothing else in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it money for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve set a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specialities at the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they &apos;ve survived ; it &apos;s demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this bush , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we &apos;re branching from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in that period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different specialities of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are quite the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and use the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically different from what comes from the pancreatic gland .
and while we &apos;re talking about bacteria , are you aware that each of us in our gut leads more bacteria than it leads cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think , when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they might just want without effort .
and so when people make decisions , and even when the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s really a simple way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to take off .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they &apos;re important for their lives .
they help digest essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary equilibrium in the form of a species ?
or are we sure to be something else -- something that is perhaps even better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just short ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it , d .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time , when multi-cellular organisms showed up , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of the sexual reproduction that the genome continues , the rest of the body is deprived .
in fact , you might say that the inevitability of the death of our body in evolution at the same time as sexual reproduction .
now i have to admit , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who introduced his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel room door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences themselves , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautifully desperate showgirl .
she looks at him , and she says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;ll take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to maintain the body .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the visual result is that we generally get better , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i have evolved like boster rockets to send the genetic question to the next stage of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen had when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , there are bacteria that are thermophil , and in doing so , the hot vapor survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would be vacuum cook fish , but they were able to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionaries were trying to connect and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason for that would be that we had , first of all , through medicine , managed to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us just as we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re walking and circulating and mixing so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument , here , would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly maximizing , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and so far as the isolation goes , if we colonize planets far away as a species , there will be insulation and the changes in the environment that evolution might naturally produce .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new evolution that is not just natural , but led and decided to be an individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma , one that we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be that we do that ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decides .
so think , if not only could it be possible to choose the sex of your child , but also to do genetic adaptations in the body , to cure and prevent the disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s or reduce the risk of cancer or stroke stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow , the more choice is better than a choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they were able to do the same thing for 20 million dollars in one to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and into the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality to be that there &apos;s going to be the $ 1,000 human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be more and more available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independently techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- which is called frances arnold &apos;s direct evolution .
a few years ago , the laser prize of scientist shinya yamanaka was given to his research where he took a skin cell , a fibroblaste , and through the manipulation of only four genes , the cell induced to bring it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially is able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself , but also serve immunity for other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study going on with vaccine versus influenza , which has been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
then just imagine two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophily , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attribute , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the power of a ken jennben hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these are going to be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed by the old style of evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time when we choose our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to require perhaps 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or your grandchildren , have to deal with .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us , and not for others of us ?
are we going to form a society of dielanguish and uniformers , or robust and multiplier ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom , and the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions in ways ?
for good or for evil , and sooner than you might think , these decisions are going to be up to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you human skills , or another one that helps wheelchair drivers get up and go back .
now , as a fundamental question -- i &apos;m almost finished -- as a basic question , which is to think about it . what makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is the material of wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they are nothing but something that will give them an extra strength in the morning , and that will continue to increase their speed and that will help them maintain their balance , for example .
this is actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who &apos;s carrying about 100 pounds on average on his back , and it &apos;s the question that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them , whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design enables you to rise deep , to crawl and to perform highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then i increase my strength and my longevity .
we &apos;re so far to imagine this device with our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people around the world who are estimated in the wheelchair .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re talking a lot about very young people with spinal cord injury , which in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , &apos; 30s , &apos; 40s -- were hit by the destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population that is multiplying .
your problem is that you have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brainbeat , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so it &apos;s been , by the way , for 500 years , since his , i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who , 19 years ago , had a spinal cord injury , which has come to the conclusion that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches , which send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached to your back .
here are also batteries , and the engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints that they move forward in this rather smooth and very natural gangkind .
i was 24 years old , and i was in the best form of a monstrous purchase tree , and i was paralyzed when i was skiing .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor walked into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go back . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every fifth of hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn to ski again , to climb and even drive with the hands of the wheel .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet us and to discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have the whole potential here to change the life of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit called robin hood .
if i &apos;m not fighting poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman &apos;s help in a volunteer trigger , the fire .
well , in our town , where volunteers were supporting a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be at the brand-place pretty early to be able to mix with you .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the fire site , so i had a pretty good chance to be in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the chief man and figure out what our assignments would be .
when i found the main man , he just had a very serious conversation with the household owner , who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the bedroom and barefoot under a screen out in the flowing rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had arrived just before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go into the house and save the house dog .
the dog ! i was a linguistic envy .
they took shiny photos from the air , which we thought would be a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their life had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that you don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or assets , who could now tell people that for the rest of his life , he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than i was .
well , i was the next one .
the main man wave me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go into the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , past the fire , and you &apos;ve got to get this woman a few shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who at this point were quite finished with the delusion , in the bedroom to get a few shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down , where i met my enemy and the beloved dog at the front door .
we wore our estimates out to the house owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a couple of weeks later , the fire guard got a letter from the householder , where she was thanking for the brave assignment of saving her house .
one of the most estimated friendliness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at the big scale , but i also see the actions of the alongside love and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now give it away .
use it in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
not every day will give us a chance to save the lives of a human , but every day gives us a chance to change one .
so get rid of it ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where the women have the prescription , with sex &apos; hello , &apos; and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relatives .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
if something of what enables people in our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would the lives of people improve , but our dignity will be improved .
bonobos , along with chimpanzees , are our closest living relatives .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggression .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve overemphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal
as chimpanzees are led by large , scary men , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because that leads to a very , very tolerant society where lethal violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among the primates .
they live in the deep depths of the congolese forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to observe .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the setting of a violent debate that has been raging for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement rating .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remained bonobos -- and even we &apos;re not sure about that to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they also have bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules such as conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that that would be the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s game fundamental to connecting relationships and nurturing tolerance .
and we &apos;re learning about trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make it possible for everybody to do better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plastering us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tite that holds us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique footage right away from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-like -- and i don &apos;t think about football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a chase game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that might be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a very sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of taking new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game both demands trust and promotes -- while at the same time it &apos;s fun .
but the game is a formal transducer .
play is a formal transducer , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little quieter , a little more imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishment .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they do , sometimes we play alone , and we &apos;re borders of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected link that we form is the real nutrient soil of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos gives us into our past and our present .
but they also maintain a secret to our future , a future in which we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printed cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
even if it &apos;s hardly appropriate , maybe it &apos;s the most necessary game .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover the creativity of crony and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two couples , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at exactly the same moment , every single baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two couples , each baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because , if you think of it all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are alive , both of them are light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- which is human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they were thinking about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , challenging social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarf growing up -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a couple of examples of the kinds of sexual variants that are not the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with a xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms leaves the protogonads that we all have in fetal stadium to grow up to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone in the fetal stage gives off testosterone .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , and they found nothing , and they concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the goldfish glass , that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more to the typical female lost .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it takes most of the time for them to reach puberty and their breasts to grow and develop , but they don &apos;t get their period until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of having eggs and uterus , she actually has testicles , and she has a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce the happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t really know my chromosome , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk about androgens .
we &apos;re producing androgen , and we &apos;re talking about androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has another receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual is not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , it can be distributed across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , raised as a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side kidney beef .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were coined male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and they reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one had any idea .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was inherently menstruing that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , where ovotestis tissue is wrapped up in testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , be it intersexual -- are often adapted to the norm by surgeons , is not because that would be an advantage to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical surgery is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomical leap comes in with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold fish glass .
so we have the concept of being a woman is to have a female identity ; to be a black person , meant , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that is actually very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , the two people in a body .
where i had seen most exciting recently , the south african runner caster semenya , last year , whose gender was challenged in the world cup of berlin .
many journalists called me the question : &quot; what test are you going to do , who tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature is not a line for us between male and female , or male and intersexual , and female , and intersexual , and in touch , we are , in fact , the separation of that line as natural .
this is almost confined to complete security -- potentially also for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation like this , where , the further our science advances , the more we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomical categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories , are much more unsharper than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re pushing the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re only distinguished from them by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward and forward , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as an example , in our culture today , in the united states , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes a human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but the defeat of his metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors had never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve been holding a feather under the nose , and when it moved , they haven &apos;t yet buried it .
if they were no longer moving , they were buried .
but today we are in a situation where we take people out of critical organs and want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re caught in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and this brings us to a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m a political progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to realize that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought makes me excited .
and it makes me really excited about democracy in terms of consideration .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they were doing , that every few years i found myself looking at the malignant musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s totally forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomical activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they returned was an anatomical concept , and they replaced it through another one that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years for us was measurable .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were thinking that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited bloodline from the grandfather to the son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome , and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they nivellized the playground , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities counted , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did that in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalist world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth law .
they moved to a naturalist concept .
and if you look at the declaration of independence , for example , they &apos;re talking about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and they &apos;ve prepared , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomical commonality is more important than the anatomical difference , and they said , &quot; that we have a uterus and an egg hives is not significant enough for us to have the right to vote , the right to have full citizenship , the right to ownership , etc . &quot;
and women were arguing successfully .
the next one was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like soap truth , who spach over it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement , saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people different skin color , which is based on anatomical similarities before anatomical differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing in the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to question why we sustain certain separations .
well , i &apos;d like to maintain certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been discarded at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she &apos;s born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand , and that &apos;s at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , she gets all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to have the right to have sex , the right to choose , to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has another biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other odds about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you think he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you think he &apos;s male , he can now be moved into what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
whereas maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can marry only in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomical categories that are problematic and fragmentary in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science makes such progress in the anatomy area that we &apos;re going to have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time it feels like science is self-perpetuating .
we &apos;ve tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture has a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people are caught in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas at one point decided that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story i told you about the androgen defect .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of a kind of a solution . &quot;
he says we should not judge people for &quot; their skin color , &quot; but for their character &apos;s property , &quot; and he goes beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should disseminate rights in terms of people , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever , who probably deserve social security rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labradors that are more capable , more intelligent , more mature decisions about their sexual relations than some 40-year-old i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the character ?
it turns out to be really hard .
and part of me is , what if the content of a personality was something that could be made visible in the future -- using fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like in iran , for example , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to undergo a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of things don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these conditions -- a surgeon that i spoke to a couple of years ago , who had brought in some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i phones with him , and i asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were high-risk surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very badly , and so he had to do it .
i told him , &quot; well , did you consider political asylum instead of having an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states offers incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones that they are , without having to change for the state of will .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to finish , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or if we had more involvement in the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern by different kinds of anatomy , especially when people use a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to see if we can do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i really found interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and how they act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every one , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relationships and the care for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i went to graduate school , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there might be something female in feminism .
this is to say , there might be something , on average , which is a female brain of male distinguished , which makes us more careful for highly complex social relationships , and more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so , where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we could get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we have to go in the future , if we &apos;re going to do democracy beyond anatomy -- think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that , as people , when we try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find a different colorful , crazy outfit , to wear , and to photograph and to blog in the past .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of the second hand in flew markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one by one , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment , and also on my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars are used to serve a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me buy my own personal searching .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve been packing for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what is someone doing with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly one week are all i &apos;ve done in my suitcase .
i &apos;ve bet that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i &apos;ve found some things .
and i want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i do that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost impossible to be physiologically ill if you &apos;re wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , not only will you understand it , you will appreciate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
is it possible to make these really big molecules that have never been made before ?
people sometimes tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing clothes , or i remember her seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me that day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you believe that you &apos;re inside and out there , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes adapt to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not all going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all back .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to be emotionally attached to these things , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiant outfit , waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in the heart and looking for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of ingenious chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody .
i &apos;ve got something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because in the formula 1 in the last few decades , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
well , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a couple of thousand sensors that are going to pass the information out of the car , pass that information on to the system , and then process it , and then use it to send back to that car and change things in real time while information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made up of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is that real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become the computers in the open .
and as a computer in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
if we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the earth &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population live there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- that &apos;s up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , it &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but still increasing , and our final point would now be put on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of that sensation and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom out there becomes both of them , a sensor and a driver .
and this is radically changing the interaction that we have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , does it mean that he ended up taking the hammer and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot untended down -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the very first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you some examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started it 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with perceivation .
now the first project i want to introduce you to is actually one of the first of our labs .
it came out of italy four and a half years ago .
and what we &apos;ve been doing is actually using a new kind of network that was used around the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network , which is now collected from the operators to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world championship .
some of you will remember , it was like italy playing against france , and then at the end of the zidane , the head shock .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle , the colosseum , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up on the top .
early in the afternoon , people here and there , doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the seven-team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place around co massimo , where , since the roman time , people have been going to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
so , very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that have a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some small markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who , a little over a year ago , helped us to tag the things that they were throwing away -- different kinds of things that you can see -- things that you would throw away anyway .
then we put the little chips , the little brands , on the garbage , and we started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
and with this information , we realized that there &apos;s a lot of inefficiency in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but it happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day that the cup that we throw away is not just disappearing that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re still throwing away every day .
and if we were to show that to people , we could make a change in behavior .
so this is the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about perceiving and the many other wonderful things that you can see with you , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we were discussing at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question from the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , valves , that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the phi x 174 genome .
they do something like a water curtain with visual points of water .
if these dots fall down , they can write on them , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to jump through it , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it &apos;s going to open up and let it go .
the roof was covered with water as well .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can even let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , this days , when you drive down the roof , you get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here i am , when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not getting wet .
well , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was even more fun .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to make them , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how people , the things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical images , the visual points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what led us to think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each one of them with a little bit of change in the light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase was when we took this piece of ingenious chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this one -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what is changing is the light , not the position of the images .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes in different resolution solutions .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of points of imagery that you can go through and move through , which you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-control , which is falling down to form a smooth v , as it used to .
when you turn the light on , it looks like this . so , as we &apos;ve seen before .
imagine that every single person is being controlled .
it could have a pulse that comes from people , from the movements of people or something like that .
i want to show you something first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells , and they came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a movement scan .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the images , you can play with it , and play with color , gravity and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
i was talking to the oil industry recently , and they said that they were getting this model right .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that we &apos;re going to bring people back to do something and change the environment -- almost something we call a cloud movement to move a scheunor , but with a cloud .
imagine that everybody can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened in the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from being a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized , knowledge , and it &apos;s making it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the obama campaign showed this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to make the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we then move from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually include the people in which they &apos;re doing things together , collectively .
they laughed more than she does here .
the cloud , again , is a cloud of images , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but covered with images .
they can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , the most important moments for the olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both , the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go up to , like london &apos;s new mountain peak .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very interested in the context .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature and that everything is connected to each other .
the first time i was in antarctica 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was struck by awe .
my heart was raging , and i was swinky as i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were racing about 60 feet out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice shells .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re interacting with their surroundings and their experiences in a clear way .
some refuse to give up and brag up to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop it and fall down in a dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , you think very easily that they &apos;re isolated , separate and alone , as we often see people .
but we wanted to go even further . we wanted to build an entire bacterial chromosome , and it had more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought we would build it in cassets of the size of the virus where we could variate the size of the cassette tapes to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its prior atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i &apos;m taking my recordings of these icebergs , as if i &apos;m making portraits of my ancestors , in the awareness that they exist in these individual moments , and will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death , if you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely actually , you will witness a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be flawed .
on the left , you see a little boat .
this is about five feet long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you another side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate of a 10,000 base pairs was a mistake .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking and he said , &quot; paps , my legs are crushing . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the al .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people a little bit about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we were still killing him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in the resort , if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to talk to him again , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all of the paralyzed people communicate through these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you have a higher social layer and a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not accessible to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; well , how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly &quot; and diving bell ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i &apos;m like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to get it into .
i commissioned myself in place to his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who carries all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people at grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw with a laser pointer on it , which is just registering the negative surface .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sexes , and then the bad words come , and then the bush publishing , and last , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home , and i ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , second , if there &apos;s this technology to use your eyes to control things , we should find a way to control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be awesome . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve done some things .
first of all , we insured the insurance of the doors , and we actually got a device for tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we &apos;ve also flown seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were nice to do this , and that we came back and all the images on the walls would be for free .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach promenade in venice , my kids were brought in , my dog was also involved , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach promenade , a little bit of copper wire and a few things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of constraints .
no insurance can squeeze .
no hospital .
every paralyzed now can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to speed &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of someone else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rumble in front of the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nighttime , tony first drew again after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and it looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve tilted his bed so that he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with the following content , &quot; for the first time in seven years , i drew something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone reached down and pulled up my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
it &apos;s kind of like our struggle cry .
that keeps us up and lets us continue to evolve .
and we have to make a lot better at this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same in a magic board .
and someone who has such artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all sorts of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered over us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about it is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that this april , in the ffen moca , in the inner city of los angeles , will be an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will probably be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is quite abandoned .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with generalization technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people , so we could put something on the legs together .
and that &apos;s the question that all of you should be asking yourself every single day , and every single day you &apos;re looking at something that has to be done . if not now , when ? and if i don &apos;t , who &apos;s going to ?
we just signed up at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but nobody has ever chosen farmers .
today , i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the juvenile room green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
she did it secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to take a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call from this teacher in the middle of the night , posting a woman , saying , &quot; i have to see her .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy i know you &apos;ve found him .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and that i want you to please hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight to their family , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put into my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , that part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that had five to seventh thousand letters , put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , to add them back together , up to 72,000 .
it needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so happy that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needs love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the clack , clack , clack , clack , clap , clap , klack , clap .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place on that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the aircraft companions .
so i looked at her in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably caught some birds . &quot;
in each step , we &apos;ve produced these pieces in the surplus , so we could sequence them , because we were trying to create a very robust process of what you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s usually not the route .
it turns off the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most intuitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; get ready to jump . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the boardroom anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was horror , life was over .
now i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about me that day .
i learned that , in a moment , everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to reach a hand , and it didn &apos;t do , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
and as i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase that said , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything more in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i was trying to get better at everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i thought about it , i decided to get rid of negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i was no longer arguing with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m no longer trying to be right ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and that is , while the internal clock is starting to count , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , 13 ... &quot;
when we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and that &apos;s how we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentary .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of dying , man , is not terrifying .
almost as if we prepare our lives for that .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and this sadness really came into a thought , which is that i just want one thing to do .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can put those pieces together .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time by connecting the dots to each other , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to anyone who flies today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would they do that they would push up , because they think they &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is three million wheels of radiation .
and more than anything else , are they the best parents they can be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is actually quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranian incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that are controlling the numbers and the valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows virus to take place on a laptop that &apos;s used by a waiting engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , and the iranian core energy program is delayed -- commissioned .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research at stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this structure was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he made a lot of zero-days-to-the-shelf use .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a laboratory rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed on it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all came back together the way it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , it occurred to me that this is a target attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the drone strikes actively on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that tries to infect it on the target .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s built up in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who had , obviously , all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the benefit data is a science for you .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
this is an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-functioning calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
her hunters could smell the urine from 40 steps away , and determine what animal species was .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can actually live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for tigers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could take or disprove .
in order to make these theories , let &apos;s remember that it &apos;s definitely a high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and very likely it &apos;s in iran because there &apos;s been most infections .
well , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
basically , it &apos;s going out on the busquhr nuclear power plant and on the uranium incentive plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client base . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor controller .
the rotor is this moving part inside the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist in space and move , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to make it slow and uncanny happen -- obviously in the attempt to make waiting engineers desperate , so that they wouldn &apos;t be able to get past it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is really sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t see it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in nateness , and i found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that fit really well .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were looking at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by hard work for several weeks .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to regather .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , turns over the rotors and slows it down , and the big warhead comes with six cascades in interaction and manipulation valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just nail .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a picture of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- actually , we just used hefe-mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them , and yeast adds them automatically .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- really blown me out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the input values of sensors -- so for example , of printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code , which is still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the pursuing chase , the monitoring system is fed with before recorded video .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here is obviously not just to overcome the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and much more aggressive .
the idea is to overcome a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power plant , for example , if the big steam turbine is too fast , you have to open depletion valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system , will notice it .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so for example , he would work just as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the use data on a usb stick , as we &apos;ve seen in stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as possible .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
this is the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
these are images over a six-second period .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to make the consequences , and we &apos;re going to start to prepare ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion too ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind this is cyber superpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of hearts . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and , at the same time , dangerous .
i went to jail -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little hard in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking for terrible situations , and all of that for trying to do is study social ventilation in a way that &apos;s compelling and interesting , and hopefully in a way to understand what makes it fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew that i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew that i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever made by humans .
some of you may have heard about this , that a couple of weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent out some facebook news , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to stand up the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profits , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it back -- buy the names rights in the talk that you just see , which was not a title or a lot of content , and not a lot of clues about what the topic would be .
so what you got was this : your name is presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and that you could actually fly around the ears after content , especially if i left your company dumb for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good medial opportunity .
do you know how many people are watching these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that anybody was going to buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i &apos;ve been in some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arrest me to go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys , to go into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a film .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sell , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom is completely packed with brands -- from the front sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadion , the stadium center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film is going to explore this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalier and tonton macoutes , and the poison that was used to make zombies secure .
if we were to print it with a writing size of 10 and without a distance , it would be 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the x as a front sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the greatest film ever sell , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention of &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of statements .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i &apos;d be happy if ceg was going to help do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how suspicious people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; angle , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how that &apos;s going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s going to be hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth talking about some really familiar brands .
who knows , when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer is going to be extremely likely &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , with a virus , it &apos;s very simple , it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing to do ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands are .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to deal with ...
it &apos;s also as simple when you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out , &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a back conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your film . &quot;
and just so , all these companies disappeared , one by one .
none of them wanted to have something to do with the film .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people as possible see it .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting mediation instrument , that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but it &apos;s just recently shown that you can do a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to another and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
actually , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , if you put transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that comes out .
i really like your kind of sergey brin . now .
this was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to explore and look through , immediately understandable ; characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business speech -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species , and basically , these two are as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to pick this chromosome , and we decomposed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the fact that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange road .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole dish of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and there he is , and he looks at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , one agency was willing to help us -- and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners that they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that &apos;s the end here , but we tried to get the process a little further .
every time i go on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe before the interview , you should put a little bit of this . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they will have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped both for men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short-term .
now , i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite cart .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in which words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all sorts of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of any kind of place , every time thousands of characteristics added to a species in just a second .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; battle smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing press ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who are like me , otto ordinary consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make that sensation sense , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief in the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
revival hits skaterpunk , except on the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , reliable fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
part of hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell sells all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little distorted industry .
my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted scripture .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tomb brand , but i often see myself at the interface of dark glamour and reliable flies .
and what was noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed someone who could invade my head , someone who could really help me understand what &apos;s called &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , febreeze , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could definitely help me .
they brought their images with them , right ?
this is what i have . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who form my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up having one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world you live in -- like people around you , friends , family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come from a place , and for me , they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
the next one . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are strange . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had added .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , which is not you .
what more metamorphosis did they go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be like .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species , and it had converted completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing that i saw was this idea that your brand personality was separated from two separate , but it has supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock-brand is an eight-by-one brand .
they &apos;re very good at adding .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will only focus on one starch , rather than both .
many companies tend to avoid -- and this is human nature -- things that they &apos;re not sure about , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re willing to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a skilled move .
what other brands are acting like this ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jet blue .
well , there are playful brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eight , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if someone asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
is it an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood to wounds ?
or are they more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little more quiet , more reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , time-consuming , adventurous , outlanded and dear like erol flynn , agile and agile , professionals , magical , mystical , gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and mondarn like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , thoughtful , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , things quite dramatically change .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies saying no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to be 17 brand partners who were willing to get into this control , who wanted to do business with someone as mindful and as playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t normally have told -- stories that would usually never support an advertising .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you &apos;re using mri today to blow up the funnies of the brain , both to make advertising and to make movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no timeline , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we went to school districts , where companies are flying their way to poor schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i had the greatest success , are the ones where i was interacting with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands have done .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and what was that for you ? what was it successful ?
well , since the movie was at the sundance film festival premiere , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premier was in january , and since -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
it hasn &apos;t come out yet in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be creating a new form of cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has acquired a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their clients to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your chance , you take risks , you take those risks and you put them in those risks .
i think if you keep people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you &apos;re training your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel like we need to encourage people to take risks in the progression .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities they might be afraid of .
finally , as we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
there &apos;s a big spoon in the world , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , it brings us a little bit of honesty .
and what that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; you welcome transparency , &quot; was presented by my good friends of emc , who paid $ 7100 for the rights of ebay .
big data is transformed into big opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this : what &apos;s happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at 7100 dollars to fund my ted performance next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i was doing something else with google , and i was suggesting to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is now , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demonstration .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access .
i grew up in india .
i became part of a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain myself -- but i had too many museums and these works of art that i had no access .
so when i went to see these museums , i started to learn a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i think i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the beginning .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gangs .
just keep on going . a lot of fun .
you pour them .
thank you , but the best one is coming .
so , i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite images , the harvest worker of pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plush sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
this is now one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;m going to click it away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in very easily and zoom out .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people fuel .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that there was something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i got close , and i started to realize that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , and i talked to some people at the met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans is being beaten with a stick on the night tuesday .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to get really close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoomed out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
the best part is , in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the brush strike ?
and what only if you want to see van gogh create this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom into one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have the time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all of these images , you can make your own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is the sent , in the national allery .
you can see everything with remarks , send your friends , and a conversation like that starts to be about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , for me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things here don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question that i &apos;ve been asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
this is the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be someone who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extreme , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good fraction of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we have now , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing can only be in a place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea ; they developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a floor threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was always falling .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t leave you just by , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with soil swells , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you can fly right through walls , or at the same time you can be in two different places .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the small , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
this didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made up of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality , and the limits of our imagination .
so i would feel much better about the whole thing , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a couple of years ago , i went to doing this .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re looking right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really large close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesics to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal , it &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean space with new silicon slice , and i refined for 100 hours to all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool of shaped hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up and i stop doing all these things , because i don &apos;t want to hurt them with it , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaves quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the passengers .
and that &apos;s what we did .
we turned off the light , put it in a vacuum and sucked out all the air and cooled it up until almost now , all by itself in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as much as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange to move .
instead of it just lying there , it was vibrating . the way it was vibrating was kind of like this -- like a stretching and folding bubble balg .
by giving him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that is only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is something really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate at the same time and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or to make drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make the piece of metal are silent , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise time points , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that each atom is at the same time in two different places , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places at the same time .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
it was worth closing in the clean room for all this year , because , check this out , the difference in scale between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in a number of places at the same time , what would that feel like ?
and it &apos;s just once selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals , or fuel production , vaccine production , and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with your body being delocalized in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , the light turned on , and we looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are really just quantum objects that are made together in a small room .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you actually sit down and you know new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that , if families think about where they live and want to work , they &apos;re given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
at the moment , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could take the world out of a very simple way , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , if you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just swap out the building of apartments for the cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments did this already , but the other half didn &apos;t .
they could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they would come up with , in these apartments and their surroundings , laws for avoiding complaints and deflecting from degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to come up with all of these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of living , provided that the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i &apos;ve proposed that governments are creating new areas that are providing enough space for a city and giving them a name : charter cities .
i later found out that about the same time , jafour and octavio , the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do the same thing in honduras .
in this case , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unprecedented surface of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy ; a part of the canadian bottleneck , and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything on the surface of these messages that they would normally have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a massive comprehension crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both new and simple .
he asked for octavio to become his steward .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation fuels .
by improving , trying and looking at consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to basically reduce elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we pay a lot of attention to new technology , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually the laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so in december , we met in the sitting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show you how valuable rohland is is in a place like new york , and remember , in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the big world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , was that a charter city is a place whose first country is uninhabited , a founding contract that determines the laws that govern there and gives people the opportunity to either live under these rules or not .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to move our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and the fifth of january .
so i &apos;ve given another facts filled with facts , which included a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch represents the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that are going to come out relatively soon , that will have much higher sugars , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came up and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be a chance to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the government leaders in honduras would depend on the help of partnerships , they could benefit from their partnerships , who they would be supporting in the setting of the laws for this charter , and the permission , that everybody could really trust that the charter is being performed .
and the insight of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get foreign investors to come in and build this city could be consistent to all the parties in honduras that have been in fear and suspicion for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as a starting material , and therefore we &apos;re working on cells that are going to go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted in congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitution that is reliable for specific development areas .
in a country that has just been behind a massive crisis , in which congress has been elected to change that constitution at 124 to a voice .
all parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
but to be part of the constitution , it has to be authorized twice by congress .
on february 17th , at 114 , it was approved to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines went to the two places in the world that were most interested in going into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a large , new city center that was built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first to be the fourth generation fuels in about 18 months .
all you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban construction is singapore .
it &apos;s already built two cities in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you basically think about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system to allow managers to participate , and it &apos;s also worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one of the things , as you already know , has been resolved , is that there &apos;s a lot of rent .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to seal in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in another place permanently .
a million people leave latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents , who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about it in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition with new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i recently did a poll with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of choices that are attacked by a typical american on a day is 70 .
and they also did a recent study with ceos , where they were watching ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo is dealing with , and how much time they spend making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is doing 139 tasks in the week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of your decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at making decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the overlap decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the overlap problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery stores , at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
they had 250 different kinds of mustards and essions , and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables , and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk guidance water .
i loved to go to this business , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gear .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those locked in boxes that came from a thousand years old olive trees .
so i decided to go to the filialleiter one day , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work for people to really offer all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marinal gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane to use hydrogen as a source of energy .
we set up a little cost-effective sacrifice right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of flavor , or 24 different flavor directions of marmelade , and we looked at two things : one , what case would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at the case that people were more likely to buy a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing there when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who were standing there when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , when you calculate it , six times more people bought a glass of marmelade , who you had six choices than when you had 24 choices .
well , to decide not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the overlapping problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production plans , converting the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , on the subject of the day , financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we were looking at the decisions for the retirements of almost a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible for a retirement savings plan , the 401 plan , is going to affect the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people anything between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fund they were offered , that , in fact , the more participatory the rate was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans , the two fonds , had a participation rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that have offered almost 60 fund , the participatory rate has now fallen to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even when you decide to participate , when there were more options for choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to be available to them , the more they were going to be avoiding it to actia and fund .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had available , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , they belong to the decisions that someone would recommend from people if we care about their future financial well-being .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- push it up , even if it &apos;s against their own best interest .
they &apos;re more likely to make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to decide for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that we might enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essional and marmelade , but we can &apos;t , in fact , compare and draw boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different kinds of research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than today , that less is more .
you know , we really have -- modern goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? you can become a source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing surface .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to narrow , and the unimportant opportunities of the equality , well , then there &apos;s a rise of the sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they were experiencing a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of the 10 worst selling cat streus , they found that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both of those , the increase in sales and reducing the cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , which is now the ninth largest supermarket in the world , is aldi , and they only offer you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how to best mandate choice , was something that david laibson has very strongly designed , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard employees are automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but the same thing we &apos;re working on right now is using the same approaches to develop vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know how people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to confine it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , their customers can &apos;t . &quot;
well , before we started this lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to provide an all-paid vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i want to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read you , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you &apos;ve seen it with the flu this year , we &apos;re always on the back a year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that it was objective , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i &apos;d like to guess that you felt it the second time real .
because the images made it more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , it &apos;s the concretization .
i think that can be changed by making recombined vaccines in the precedent .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , have to understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that those consequences have to be vivid and concrete .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more on using an ec-map or a credit card than on baremoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel the money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees all working for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it was , just as we added a little bit .
the little thing that we put in there was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four percent increase in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaes , and perhaps eukaryontes .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine course .
it turns out that in the throwaway supermarkets , it &apos;s up and down in the northeast area , the number between 331 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , then you think that i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice than i &apos;d given you the 400 to that , if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the one on the left is swing , and the one on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there &apos;s a couple .
if you think the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is just to have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the choice , not the one who provides the choice .
and this problem you often see when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think , we just have to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely self-assemble your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now , these decisions are different from the number of choices that they provide per decision .
car color , outcolor of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers will go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the clients go from low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re always using the standard choice in the decision , that means you &apos;re being overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough are going to the standard choice over and over again .
we lose them .
go from the little choice to the many , then stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order that this information is presented in .
when i start with the simple beginning , i &apos;m learning how to choose .
even though the gear chooses nothing to tell me about my preferences in the interior , it still prepare me to choose .
so now it &apos;s there . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever approached -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also makes me excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to get motivated to be interested in it .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision-overlapping -- limited -- get rid of the over-fluid alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; we can prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use it for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best choice you can choose is that you &apos;re selective in the choice .
and the more we choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , youtube trends-managers . i &apos;m looking at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video is viral , and then we want to talk about why it &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith . of course , there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came through during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and that up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to be amazingly famous in a part of the culture of our world .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , a tiny percentage of them will ever be viral , and they will be looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does that work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambitious .
whoa !
ohhhhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had shot in front of his house in the yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you &apos;re doing when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , which ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things , and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we &apos;d have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take images of these mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know it , those other tips are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 forgot , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was a first person to make a joke on twitter about it .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a position , shared with a large audience , and then accelerated the process .
then this community of people who shared this great insider joke , and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the one-sided conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new out of it .
this is what i &apos;m working on . it &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters across , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that is in the internet culture of technology and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction , so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we &apos;re doing it .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what are the scripts that you could have written in which this is in ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only really can reveal unique and unexpected videos as the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against the ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you go on the bike lane .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at at five million times .
this approach applies to everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
and all of this leads to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participatory communities , completely unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and in which the audience is popular .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- made his start on youtube .
no one has to give your ideas to green .
and today we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re barely coming to the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind when he was in the march of the communicators in saigon , how to admit that his life was a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now mocking his own .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken through the story .
it caused immense juvenile in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we were through it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running out in the early morning red in the lake .
my mother , may , was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a job : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film tire saga glitt a boat still on the lake as a fisherman boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put the entire trajectory around the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc , to make a rain from particles to the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the greatest fear of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
when i was a prisoner , my sister and i would have drowned , and then she and my grandmother drank from it .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bow , the vast and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the failure of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple to give me one of the men on the platform .
no apple ever smeaked that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of the puzzle is about four women in three generations who are together building a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew the machine worked , which is a big triumph .
we settled in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , which is a population of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the scaffolds from the ladder bars came from the rest of the world .
and the fat of broken english was traded between people who had one thing in common : they started to recover .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , twice layers .
she somehow managed to find her time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to give up on it , and most of the time , the new things that always came out of the second hand .
two strokes for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest juble , or this is when someone went to the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; sludge eye , &quot; and here and there were mural paintings : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
home ?
something was going up in me .
there was a reconciliation meeting , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we were telling each other about our day , and we were listening to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came so i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , and then she did a cosmetic education , and she opened another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and unflexible , and troubled children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact on the side of science .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student , the inexorable demands for myself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe lives that wore tragic scars of violence , of drug abuse and of isolation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by one piece of the puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous footscray inhabitant , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak in places she had never heard of , and in homes whose existence she had never imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the besteck .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who graduated each of their days as they were for 20 years by telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping with each other , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother , i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we climbed the boat .
no , never had a chance .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and not what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i was talking about youth unemployment and education , and the neglect of marginalized and discharged .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires conduct 13-thousand ampere when the machine is running on high performance .
i met people in all of their lives , so many of them did what they loved , lived at the boundaries of the possible .
and even though i graduated from college , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a rebound , a new image -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is falling apart , but not the way you fear it .
options that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the wagnity .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for which the boom &quot; is not &quot; an unresistant challenge .
now , the engineers among you will look at you and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i used to cook a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked up until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant , and we created the breakthrough .
i made the decision to go to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can afford that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died at the moment of her birth .
her mother was raising her own .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without the support of her husband , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to court , and she was a proponent in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go &quot; proved to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to pass .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the space between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories , and we assured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding them since this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there is a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you look at who we were , and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over nine-thousand magnets at the lhc , there was a factory defect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life , which is courageous to every wave , the insane , steady virtues of the engine , the long horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos; mother is here in the fourth or fifth row today .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
so the wires heated slightly , and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography started when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my former preferences for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because when i used the camera , the process was actually in the planning process .
and when you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a construction site along a much ridden road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it keeps a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones give rise to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really catch , but i always want to make it look like it could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more impressive if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i see them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a particular way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re checking our brains , because our brains just don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same lighting .
and these two pictures fulfill these two demands -- shot out of the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
does it impossible to say how the photograph was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges to the individual paintings , adding photographic disorders , like depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and making them look like a single photograph , although a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape image , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in winter , i knew that it would take me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a fishery trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconstructed them , repaired them .
and yes , i even colored the house on the top of the island red to make it look swedish .
to get a realistic result , it &apos;s going to go from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
after that , it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and it can also be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools available , and the only thing that limimics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way back now .
and one of the things we introduced at the bike university was to do a major listener .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it &apos;s a cup of coffee or tea , and it &apos;s asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how is it ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems of why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are failing : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . this is a very simple thing .
it has a button , it has a button .
and every morning , i &apos;ll jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilos .
it works very simply : every time i jump to the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be working again .
and they &apos;re also called by my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not just the moment i need cardiology or something , but also with a view of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you might know that , i &apos;ve got over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i &apos;m jumping on my wall scale , and people are talking to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salt today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group forced to help patients , because this could be used for obesity , or it could be used for smoking patients .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and to get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
next week , this is coming to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come into play . not only can they take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health , double demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to be able to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make ways that are easy to use , and start with this one , to hug patients in the team .
and they can do that through such methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things that we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastria .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way , the accidents are restoring the debate around the value of science and engineering on these kinds of boundaries , and it &apos;s easy to reject something like that .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where it is , when it &apos;s up , &quot; because sometimes it &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht , and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and in the next couple of weeks , you can also use your micro-cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we &apos;re asking our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds all over the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relativity or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these might be copper services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us , and try not only to improve health , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to tell you about unexpected discoveries .
i work in solar technology .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be confirmed by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to overwhelmingly displace the soul of the living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist , humphrey davy , who , i think , when he defended the useless experiments of his apprentice , his apprentice was michael faraday , who said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind , to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumph are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a quick video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this over -- instead , i &apos;m just going to skip the video ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year out and work in an environment that is pretty much everything they hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peace scorps for geeks .
we pick some fellows every year , and we let them work with city management .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re going to send them to rathaders .
and they developed great apps , working with urban workers .
but what they really do is to show what technology is possible today .
so you meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is someone who &apos;s freed him up when he &apos;s snuck in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire fight when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he come to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
last year , we had a team of fellows in boston in the suit , the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s done a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open these fire hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik # els-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed up the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , and he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agree with him for free when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take you away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s more , of course , than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago just introduced them , so that people would freak up the buyer sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my big , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread mably , organically , of course .
if you know about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
software assembly typically takes a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method with which parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it went over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that has cost the taxpayers two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app , which is written in a few days , and then it &apos;s spread from rarely , is a kind of a shot before the bug on the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- not more like a private company , how many people think it should be .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a saled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people making the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , recently , a strange thing has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship with this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the heart , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we can &apos;t do together . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things are changing .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power out of us -- remember , &quot; we people ? &quot; -- how we think about it will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government is mostly about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about municipalities , about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called the michael eat , pray , love -- that , unlike all of my previous books , for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they &apos;re all -- you &apos;ll see that the people , the government , are calling for a lot of different problems , including that there &apos;s a marsupial rat in your house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and then finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock &apos;s skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston has not just a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m tilted to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- this came in : &quot; thylacine rat in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking about human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- the demise of the demise !
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacines . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital meets the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get the government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of the government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
and so the voodoodooists like to say , &quot; your white one goes to church and talks about god .
for example , you &apos;re very worried about me and you say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to state services .
when one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to think about this , is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , our values , to reflect our needs , and then not a lot of change ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to do bureaucracy sexy .
because this is where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupythesia movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the financial reform legislation .
it &apos;s not being politically active , it &apos;s being bureaucratic .
well , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave our children behind .
okay , that really makes it courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can achieve what we need to do without improving the institution that can act in the name of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to promote the function of the government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up looking at your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this struggle that we &apos;re all struggling to talk about ; they &apos;re all allowed to talk .
you can express your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so , when you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was faced with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to release a fire hydrant , to hunter-hunter , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure enough , we could have released these fire hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do that .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who are paying taxes and receiving performance .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we have to do together , all together , will we be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , are you not afraid to succeed ?
my role usually is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can barely keep up with .
i &apos;m going to start showing you a single , boring slide .
... if you could just show the slide for a moment .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is kind of on a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this type of scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is happening here .
don &apos;t you fear the humiliation of a defeat ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn the light back on .
another slightly brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , this is the years , the timeline of a species , and this is any measure of the technology that i want to illustrate with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but when something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if the transportation technology were to go as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re going to take this craftsmanship and never come out of it , and you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dream -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it doesn &apos;t go so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is increasing exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two possibilities .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of it .
now , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
is that really , then that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the current world to a new kind of world .
it &apos;s about , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is , what is this new world going to be like ?
what is this new state that the world is starting to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now here we have a conference where people are talking about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we don &apos;t go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;ve been in the world every year .
i think the reason for this is because we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know it just doesn &apos;t make sense at the moment to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple wedding of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is , yes .
now i want to talk about what this could be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to first talk about some of the other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because in order to really understand this , we have to step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the timeline of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the overall picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and for two and a half billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of floating chemicals .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how everything has started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about that , which is that at that time , there were little oil droplet , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet had a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like that started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were , in the sense , the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t about living in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread out to unequal amounts .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which was one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside , and divided faster .
so these were the tendencies to survive longer , and they were multipliing at a greater scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interestingly , when these droplet were learning a trick about abstraction .
in a way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet have learned the ability to write down information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this insane , evolutionary way , they found a way to allow them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this way of storing information over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came out was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us , which is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same type of writing .
and that is , every being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that we can only write for pleasure purposes , even something in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white powder here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security staff .
this is -- what i &apos;ve done is , i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 euro22 times .
so if someone wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everybody in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the demise of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m much more afraid of things that nobody would know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities of cells emerged .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin , and they &apos;ve written this information together with other bacteria , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
now this communication allowed the reason of communities that were in a certain sense the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , and that meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
the transition is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which together function as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level at which evolution was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step was now happening within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing other than processing information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;m like , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point an individual -- learning now happened within the span of the time of a single organism , rather than over this evolutionary period of time .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick for the last time it ate it .
now this could happen within the lifespan of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years to be learned , because this information had to be evolutionarily learned from the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could happen within a time-learning framework .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so , for example , the most subtle version of this kind of communication that we know is human language .
i mean , it &apos;s quite an amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving a grunting sound of mine , hoping to create a similarly confused idea in your head , which has a certain kind of resemblance with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in other people &apos;s heads .
so this now allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multicellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , are processing it .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in that direction .
telephony , computers , video dancers , cd-roms , and so on , all of our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work they feel like they &apos;re working with ?
you &apos;ve also seen ty &apos;s little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve re-accelerated the timeline again .
the first steps in history that i told you , took a billion years to do this .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself , and so , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- if something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises is that they make us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t ?
i live in the workplace from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers , without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connecting machine .
it has billions of them .
what i &apos;m doing instead , and what the designers of thinking machines are doing , is we &apos;re thinking at a certain level of abstraction , we &apos;re going to give this machine , and the machine is doing something that &apos;s going to exceed our ability far beyond ourselves , better and faster than we could ever do it .
and it does it in part with the methods that we don &apos;t even understand so far .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve been using a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , generators , please , a hundred million randomly chosen sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these randomly chosen instructions , run out all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that are the closest to my premises . &quot;
so in other words , i first define what i want .
let &apos;s say , i want to sort numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for that .
so , find programs that can sort the most numbers .
of course , the chance in random election instructions is very small that by chance , they &apos;re going to sort numbers , so probably none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them , with some luck , likes two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my premise .
store them off , delete the rest .
now reproduces all the rest of the remains that the numbers have best sorted .
and it &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical block , john -- how are you going to do with this ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the presentations than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
reevaluating them .
maybe lead some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take a few milliseconds .
and so i can go through an evolution over millions of years in the computer within a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
and finally , i get programs that can make numbers perfectly different .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t occur , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s abandoned and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re going to do the job , because you &apos;re from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i used to sit in a 747 , with marvin minsky , and he would pick up a map , and he would say , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it &apos;s too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classic engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be done with damage ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists have not been given the call of alcohol addicted manic depression over the centuries .
it allows us to do things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a way , technology is overwhelming us .
now we use these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it &apos;s getting faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we &apos;re going to take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time , as a one-cell organisms , evolved to multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of reputation , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this reputation , mentally , unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else is coming after us .
i find it very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about how nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians then , we jumped into a car , and we swirled over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , the young and often of your own hand died .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince had dura , he took a bow , he shooted into the ground and water came out .
now we &apos;re doing this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it was frightening to me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirate and unfortunate ships and images in my imagination .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went to the world of technology to see how i could use them to make magic possible instead of killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that readers can connect all over the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , and animation , sounds and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer just before his death in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
here it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and from me , a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magic and kites , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a jar , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to flip the ipad and get the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be in a single marble .
and so every book here , every world , becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these cards were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that &apos;s indian , but it &apos;s also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even shrink when we hear somebody say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve been so internally accepted and collectively accepted that creativity and suffering are somehow related , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of fees and nymph , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years in an old bold book .
and we bring them back , in a contemporary story for children .
a story that is confronted with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
in the theme of environmental crisis , a big problem over the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and shells .
somehow the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out in a chapter and take a picture of a flower and tag it .
the question i want to ask everybody here today is : is this idea completely okay for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food , and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there &apos;s a variety of ways to connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of 11 that appear on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where technology &apos;s natural forces can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , the fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time researching people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social construction settlements and places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and a force that otherwise wouldn &apos;t have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good , but as a doctor , you can do more .
and that &apos;s why i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a gun , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trunk state , the glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body so that it stops when it &apos;s placed into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it go into the next century .
it was also the origin of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
her parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery formed her worldview very strongly .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could hardly breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my embrace ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
and she was something that did that , you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better for us to live our great creative encouragement .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , i woke up one morning and i went into the living room . all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room , staring at me .
first of all , i thought this was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
and that was like 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me on the hand and she said , &quot; come on , bryan , you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it as though it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to suck down this dark path of the presumption , especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in right now in my career .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you &apos;ve got to promise you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i was watching you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re something special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i will never forget that .
and then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i &apos;m going to tell you &apos;re going to love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;ll do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; the next thing , i &apos;ll tell you , you &apos;re always going to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
after all , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is that you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack beer with me , my sister and i got in the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow beer and offered my sister one , and she accepted , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . today we do it , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink something . &quot;
and then he looked me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still crazy about the conversation with oma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is considered to be the work that came after the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to give you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t .
this is perhaps being transmitted in public .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never had a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity is what it means .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i &apos;m saying it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s very likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to take care of .
i &apos;ve tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in jail .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged with the evidence or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population are despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned on probability or conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all the black young men are either in prison , in prison , abandoned or in conditions of punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also deformed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that &apos;s much better treated them when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , influences the result .
and yet , we seem to be very happy with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kind of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at 9 a.m. , and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama draws them permanently to the right to be sentenced .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population has permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as before the law of the election .
silence is ears anesthetically .
i advocate children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , we have life penalty for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d like to continue to do this work that i love .
i &apos;m advocating people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe , because we &apos;re taught to do this , that the real question is , did a human deserve to die for a crime that he &apos;s got ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anybody deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we &apos;ve executed , one that we &apos;ve invented for innocent , which was uncharged and released from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i met , the sophii from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , were the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly on an airplane if , for nine airplanes that would take off , one would fall off .
but somehow we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our struggle .
i talk a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , all the way to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying we have it for the first time in our nation &apos;s history of terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no , no -- tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the racial race and decades of racially motivated submission and apartheid came .
and yet , there is a dynamic in our country -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to maintain a safe distance between myself and my very natural sense of what the reaction will be to the writing .
and so we don &apos;t really understand the meaning of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly hitting each other .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , there can never be them in germany anymore . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models for this last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more reasonable ideas about how to help creatives take the emotional risks that are connected to creativity .
there was a silence , and then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever speak for the systematic killing of people again .
it would be unconscious of us to be aware and targeted to focus on people . &quot;
i thought about it .
as it would feel , to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unconscious .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher , when the victim is white , than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , when the incorporated black and the victim is white -- in the same states in which the body is yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnection .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , these difficult issues , the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this search led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but in the end , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , degradation , distinction .
i think it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we &apos;re ultimately talking about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , that means time to spend thinking and talking about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to eventually believe things that we can &apos;t see .
we do that . as rational as we are , as much as we appreciate intelligence .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development are not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us to be not just open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said this .
when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted all sorts of things , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness .
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe the ted communities have to engage in .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be completely human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , boundary and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it will deeply touch you .
as a young lawyer , i have the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in the ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery busykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white man , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women met , and they were just talking .
occasionally , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so inspiring .
i sat there one day , and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right .
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine diener-mind that comes to people from a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to achieve ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do something about injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the crimination system .
we want to eliminate life penalty without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of inmates .
we want to eliminate mass incarcerations . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine diener-spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and therefore they have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be braver .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of us .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
it was known by socrates that he believed that he had a demonstration that would tell him from a distance .
if someone takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that &apos;s true , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that needs to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not going to be measured by our technology , not the things that we &apos;re developing , not our intellect and our mind .
in the end , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the judgment , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re just beginning to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . a story at the end .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result , the conquest , this people moved into an isolated volcanic massive that rises over the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body losem of creative mind a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i advocate these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the research prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and he &apos;s supposed to be on trial as an adult .
and then i ask myself , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
this is great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this brief . the headline was , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top managers . &quot;
in my brief , i explained that misconduct of the state sanctuary and the police and procedure failures were considerable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that &apos;s just misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up , and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my apprehension , i had not only written him , but sent him to the court .
a few months went by , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i &apos;ve got to go into the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be living in the walls of an artist -- kind of like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and the artist at work would sort of be invisible and design the outcome of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i lifted up the staircase to the court , there was an older , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered in my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there is the distance that i was talking about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deep in me , identity , the ability to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you do this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy lawyers and office workers .
the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i looked up and down the janitor .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
after all , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial output in the courthouse , and he sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
and during the break , a police officer came in , and it bothered that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what are you doing in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal out of the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is far out , but that it &apos;s increasing justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that we &apos;re not completely evolved as humans , as long as we don &apos;t care about human rights and basic values .
that our everybody &apos;s survival is linked to every single person &apos;s survival .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i just want to say to you , those of you who see this just as well , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious desire , and you &apos;ve heard , to help them and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you &apos;re living in california , this spring , there &apos;s a volksdecision about actually trying to do something about the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of the punishment .
for example , here in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all killing delicates don &apos;t end up with an arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you wouldn &apos;t be able to look at everything for you , everyone knew you had this bodiless genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
there &apos;s a chance to do something here .
this reference is going to suggest that investing money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has dropped immensely .
this fact is often put into a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarcerations in this country were not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come in the prison inmates .
we &apos;ve been ripping away from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people back to the grid forever for a bicycle theft , for the theft of the thief , for the good , rather than forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a criminal , not less .
and i think that our current philosophy of punishment is not helping anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , you &apos;ve really got a string to vibrate here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you .
bin laden &apos;s death is an increased risk of driving .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit of a mess .
famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pepper spray of the police .
bad cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
talk 6 : social decline . 65 deaths .
tsunami warning . nine : cyber-attacks .
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . stagnation . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media prefers to show us negative themes , because our minds give attention to these very topics .
so in the west , people have been thinking about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second every day , our senses catch much more information than our brain can ever process .
and because we &apos;re more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our vehicle detector .
it &apos;s sorting and coming through all the information in the search for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand is very true . &quot;
now , with all our digital devices , which give us seven days a week , 24 hours a day , all these negative messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is doing worse and worse .
but maybe this is not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- all gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take orders from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we can create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have a big problem -- climate crisis , biodiversity , water and energy problems -- we already have that .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but eventually overcoming them .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can anticipate the development .
over the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which is adapted to inflation , the average income in the world has tripled .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and also , the food , electricity , transportation and communication costs have decreased a lot of times .
steve pinker has shown us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time of human history right now .
and charles kenny has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the past 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re constantly increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a large fraction of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tvs , mobile phones , climate conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of those luxury goods .
the basis for a lot of these technologies are forming , and they &apos;re growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes information technology is going to be big on the moore &apos;s law curve , doubling the price performance quotient every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people calling this or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law for the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite its logarithmic process on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are all available .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something that my friends at autodesk call infinite computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet to democratize , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
now , that was great .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started here at ted a new university called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that , in a decade , can positively affect the lives of billions of people .
think about the fact that a group of students today can influence the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think that he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to get them to a frail , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about creating abundance out of scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource that is liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver besteck , napoleon himself got gold besteck .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum besteck .
aluminum at that time was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plain .
this is why the dome of the tone monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like a pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking about energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet of 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , goes to the surface of the earth .
and this is what unfolds and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not about scarcity ; the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , you &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india at 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy in the last year dropped by 50 percent .
this published with a study last month that shows that by the end of this decade , in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents per kwh , compared to 15 cents on average of the national average .
and if we have an energy overload , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it called ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think that this pressure of success has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yes , there &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are iron , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology along the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything is going well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technological innovation that is out there today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
you my goodness , we &apos;re soon reaching the 70 percent delivery rate of mobile phones in the developing world to the end of 2013 .
just consider that a massai warrior with a mobile phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in the abundance , as no one could have ever predicted .
and it &apos;s even better than that , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photo , libraries of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are literally now being materialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what is expected for us in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams all over the world to connect all of these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test the cleaners or your blood values .
and to win , it has to be a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna-or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are the population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and only by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion internet users to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard about before will join the global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the training to priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe return to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of economic standstill , i see one of the greatest economic profits in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be trained better by the khan academy , and by having the possibility of using 3d printers and infinite computing , and being so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a sentence of new , never heard before .
how about giving a voice to the oppressed , wherever you are , to be aware and to create change for the very first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned through the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited about .
there &apos;s a program that some people might know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought well from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that today , human pattern recognition is better at folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who &apos;s the best protein folder in the world , it wasn &apos;t a mit professor , it wasn &apos;t a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked in the daytime as a assistant of business in a rehab clinic , and at night was the best protein ordnesman in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future is the fact that we now have more power than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to address the new challenges , and to do what is necessary .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who are really advocating scientific doubt about the idea of -- fundamentally -- fees that people are following and doing feathers on their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little bit of baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season end , and we &apos;re moving towards the world championship .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns out to be statistics , and to use it to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to relate to a statistic that i hope most of you have ever heard of .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 if a bat beat 300 .
that means that the player is certainly beating three out of 10 beats .
that means beat the ball into the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and whoever tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was in safety .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 300th in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
do you know what you call a 4,00ter ?
this is a guy who , by the way , is surely four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable that i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your householder refers to a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re sending each of them , including me , into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody is thinking about the details of how this should be done .
and this is the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and that &apos;s what it was .
and i learned in my little dive at the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolute insanity of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify the renal tubuläre azidose .
and all the time , i was collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i shut down with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything , and i knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer , and i was brought to the hospital emergency room .
at that point , i was devoted to the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for cardiology advice to study the emergency room patient .
a process that , as anyone knows , has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to give feedback to my supreme doctor .
i studied a woman printer , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made a clustering sound .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crushing sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood up , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it &apos;s filling that gradually , so the short breathing .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure from the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water pills , so that she &apos;s leaving the fluid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , sometimes it can feel just paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent her home .
i actually made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my chief doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the audience up and do what i should have , which was a call to my supreme doctor to tell him that he had a chance to take a picture .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the helpful doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was doing , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of darkness , in stone huts at the depth of the glaciers for 18 years -- two periods of nine years , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their primary mother , they &apos;re now spending metamorphorphically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet for her entire life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she was working outside in the fields , and she said she was able to feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
by sending them home , i mixed up a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacked by self-confidence that i asked the nurse , who cared about women printers , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it , and she said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the discharge papers and a hospital car and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency room on my way home .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency care is especially because we &apos;re just seeing the patients so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patients they sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse questions .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular audio .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she barely breathed and ran blue .
it would roll across the country to them .
the emergency staff moved all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure increases .
they hooked it to the respiratory machine .
i was shocked , and i was disrupted to the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped it would recover .
and after two , three days , it realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they came up with the shot .
the other day , they were listing her -- woman printer , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the basin .
you say you never forget the names of those who die .
and this was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i was going to propose , and i learned , for the first time , the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , when you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s secret , even though that one is boomed to the default , and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it , and gives you a terrible discussion , but when you end up having the bad conscience and you swear that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do recurrence and never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way that i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you intrinsically ill .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that at such a moment she could only do one thing , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was shredding the woods and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the chief doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then at my worst moments : how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely it did .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i was negotiating that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never again committed a mistake that the voice could be silent .
and she did .
she ran to the house like the devil , as she was pursued by this poem , and it was only about the fact that she had to go quickly enough to a piece of paper and a pen , so that if she could catch it through her , she could catch it and hold it on the leaf .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had a service in the emergency room in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a mature rage .
it was a lot of stuff , and i was in hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the racks , and it was a little bit of a pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even when he walked out of the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t get to the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it would continue to move across the country , and -- as she said -- looking for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature rage ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s infected a streptococccal infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rachens , it &apos;s the upper respiratory system , and it causes the circuitry of the breathing path .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica , and he recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , and i felt relieved , and i went back to work until it came back and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold .
there &apos;s a lot of this , especially if you think you &apos;re working in a hospital that only had 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there were no defects in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget that part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one was , i thought he had kidney stones .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague noticed , in the reconciliation of the patient , a hardening in the lower right sector , and they called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate him , and i also asked my colleagues to look at him .
and he did , and when he noticed a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they had surgery , and they were fine .
both of these cases were coming to me , and they were asking me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors happened only in the first five years , which is what many of my colleagues say , but is total nonsense .
some of my blocks have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then she said -- it was like taking her other hand and getting it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can voice the quiet one that tells me what really can &apos;t be found , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so they don &apos;t make the same thing ?
if i go into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you &apos;ve heard of someone talking about failures about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support , and start to tell them what i just told you , i wouldn &apos;t probably get to the end of the second story before it really was unpleasant to you , anyone would be going to be in a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me , i have trouble looking in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them . the ones that constrain sleep , and the ones that don &apos;t have any limitation , the ones that have bad results and the results .
she caught the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological response like antibodies attacking a human .
and there &apos;s this idea that if we put those who make mistakes out of medicine , we &apos;re going to have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for a first article i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that errors are absolutely inexorable .
we &apos;re working in a system where every day mistakes happen , where one out of 10 medications is either a false or wrong , where hospital infections are becoming more and more and more abundant and devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of complete errors .
in the united states , the institute for medicine is 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all of this time , they &apos;re culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we might say the ecological -- equilibrium .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge is doubling every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up with it .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology course for a breast pain patient .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat it and i give it a slightly alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is transformed with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things .
and my patients are not cars ; they &apos;re not always telling me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this is in summary of errors inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i &apos;ve been taught to do , and you take out all the errors of health care experts , there &apos;s no one left at all .
when i heard that , i thought that was creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would go to every rescue assistant to the head of the cardiologist saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i show with the microphone .
and then their pupils are expanding , they &apos;re bumped in front of their head , and then they &apos;re looking down and they &apos;re swallowing , and they &apos;re starting to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that allows you to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a man , white to make his humanity , accepted , is not proud of making mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning from them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports others when they talk about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to just make , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups , which make it easier to find errors that make people inevitable and also enabling loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for them , and that specifically for people like me who should make mistakes and be rewarded for the gratification of that .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what they think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . in order to work , i have to stand up every day at the same time and sweat , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , small idea .
it &apos;s about alterable standard values .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories earlier to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing finks , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one as a very common one .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my masonry species , sometimes this thing has stripped .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
nevertheless , we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate another concept , the shiftable range of waistages .
because i experienced it when i was studying a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate myself .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and some mangroves were surrounded .
there were buntbarsche of about 20 inches , black jaws , a kind of a buntbarian .
the fisheries of these buntbarsche were very productive , and the fishermen lived well , and they earned an average of it in ghana .
when i returned to that 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grow five centimeters .
they were genetically pressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me , which i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also lucky to be there .
so there &apos;s nothing changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my participation in the introduction of the trawling net in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s , rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s , europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fishery funding meant countries that were already starting 100,000 fish , the industrial fishery of this rather ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on it , and we made the census all over the southern china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we caught there .
now i know it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reefs .
what is this thing ?
basically , the ocean was coming to deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition goes very quickly .
within a year , you do a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changing is because , in this case , a hard reason or soft corals are becoming a matchy crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we started a vivid one .
she was not drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of rubber is collected by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to that without losing our minds , but actually keeping us in mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standard values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it changes over time . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
each generation is looking at the images that you take in the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and it &apos;s going to derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a series of changes .
for me , the best living example of how you can do this is the musician tom waits , and i was allowed to interview him a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , they just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s what we &apos;re aiming for now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now , one might think that the problem is that people who were certainly living in predatory societies were killing animals and who were only aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common will rarely become before it dies .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurring animal .
you lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a great loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out one day , and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to shine on the hands of the amazingly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything you &apos;ve learned in the abstract is confirmed in amazing glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really , as i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the modern artist who tried to master this uncontrollable creative impulse that lived in him , and to deal with them .
there &apos;s little fish left over time , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept that ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they are in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there is , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain , which has been observed in this area , can &apos;t be used , or can &apos;t be used by fishermen , usually because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormously important role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re restoring the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area and can benefit from the insight that enables them to bring back their normal values .
what about the people who are not able to do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- for example , the people in the midwest ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by this -- except for the pocahoneyman story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s a wax call that &apos;s kind of been lost .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is cameron , so he &apos;s rotating &quot; avatar ii . &quot;
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as it is often used to inspect , is very difficult to grasp , and he wants to have it . she &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s leaching for it , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf with an example text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of that thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do this , and how much that would limit the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but today in 2011 , if you buy a new color laser printer from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , then this page has luminously printed yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that clearly lets the page go back to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and no one seems to be upset with that .
and this was an example of how our own governments use the technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a cassette recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that we have today .
let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can divide the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb into him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song for forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
björn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour , and so on and so forth .
these people have come online , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegal by using trojans , for example , to claw money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency frog , two months ago , was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and this account was 14.9 million dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free-foot basis , the place of the inflammation is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that it &apos;s more likely today to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes are going to be happening online .
i &apos;m not good enough ; i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest group of attacks that we see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the online attacks field .
so these are the three main flu groups : criminals who are doing it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are doing resistance , but the last group are nations , governments who are running the attacks .
we have cases like the diginotar .
it shows an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete netherlands certificate -- or it was .
last fall , it had to raise insolvence , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the guides of this group to ask if he could do it for the fact that , because of the diginotar hacks , people had died .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die as a result of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we &apos;re all using , or many of us , gmail , or one of our competitors , but these services are especially distributed in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can do it if you go into a foreign .
certification agency hacks and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that have happened in egypt ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april of 2011 looted the headquarters of the egyptian secret police , and they found a lot of acts .
in these records , a folder was called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that had sold to the egyptian government a few programs that they could -- in very large terms -- capture any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the headquarters are right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty much a tap on your phone .
he just looked into the sky and said , &quot; excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving a car ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojer to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t really matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
do i look like i could just write a song up ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we like to trust our governments , every right we give away is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , we trust blindly of any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete block stones were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measurements that fit together .
concrete tiles became the world &apos;s most used building unit very quickly .
they put us in the position of building things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically compiling stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges , beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete block , the building block of the world , and made a building block out of it for our imagination .
in the meantime , the same year at bell labs was announced the next revolution , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked up tiles to a world in which everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a key difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , jellyfish somebody else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hand of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , sound , motor and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them around the wrong way .
the stones are color-coded .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build a bigger cycle very quickly .
they put a blue one on a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and you made a little blinker .
add this buzzer to an additional effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , link or resolve , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to put every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that you have in your everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator react to touch , or how an ipod reacts to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filz , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience whatsoever -- only cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
it wasn &apos;t the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a bumblebee of play-doh that is scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design processes and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , is ours .
so , go ahead and start to invent it .
thank you .
but the process and the hard climb that surrounds him was lifted up when he took out the genius , where he didn &apos;t make anything more than the anger and left him where he came from , sort of , he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the stranger , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea rescued me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of these bars of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are the younger brothers , we are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started thinking , i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered tom talking in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript , and i talked about my comment towards an empty corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , that it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to get up here , and you have to stop your portion of the deal .
okay . but , if you don &apos;t do that , you know what the hell is .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to ask you to protocol that i &apos;ve been here today for my part of the job .
because , at the end , it &apos;s like this . for centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people gathered to monthly with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but over and over again , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know all of you in your life have seen such a performance .
it was as if the time was standing still , and the dancer was stepping through a kind of peer , and he did nothing but he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before . but everything was combined .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be human .
it was lit from the inside , and it was lit from the bottom , and everything was illuminated by a divine fire .
when this happened , people knew what this was . they called it his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like the allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosques of southern spain were conquering this practice , and the language changed over the centuries of michael allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , olé , which you still hear in the butcher and flamenco dances .
whenever we think of innate and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old framework of the noble wild , which is a racial thought in its simplification , or , on the other hand , thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical , something magical , like the allah , olé , allah , great , bravo , unbelievable , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning , when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer carrying a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never get up to those heights again .
and maybe never , ever again , will anybody call god &apos;s name when he turns . but then what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment when you didn &apos;t believe that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just think you &apos;re a loan -- of an unthinkable source for a reader &apos;s time in your life that &apos;s passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so , indians are neither sentimental , nor are they elected by the nostalgia .
so i started to think , and so i think , surely in the last few months , while i was working on the book , which is going to be -- as the dangerous , scary , very expected follow-up of my outcome .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about this is , don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you &apos;re on the side decides for a moment to show a little bit of wonder through your efforts , then , you know .
and if not , still dance your dance .
and , you know , maybe for you , all that .
i believe this , and i feel like we should teach this .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for it in the malaria swamps of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist in itself because it &apos;s breathed into the human consciousness .
michael olé ! for you all , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the lower 48 states , has shrunk 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t really express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse shot of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is going to save the frozen reason for the arctic ocean , where there are large amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s blown up , is transferred from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we crossed this critical point .
already today , in some shallow lakes in alaska methane , from the water itself .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled to another team of work to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how will we do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous warmth heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andean , who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind that determines his or her destiny , will become a whole other person , and a different relationship with that resource or that place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be carried off .
this is an annual diving river .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level is going through land ice sheet is going up here , it &apos;s going into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adding .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has emerged over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is like 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see on the top new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a bunch of errors , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the water levels have expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away too .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is about the storage basins .
and the predictions , as you &apos;ve read them , are serious .
this estrogen in the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have increased in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 years .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day in the oceans .
if you look at the area of the eastern pacific , the american continent west and both the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline of oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the biggest two polluters , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be eradicated .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal dustries and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last calendar year promoting clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , at home in tennessee , there was a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve probably seen it in the news .
this is the second largest waste river in our entire country in america .
this is what happened at christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry at christmas was this one .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
that made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests of the hukuk and the bothered celestial beak and the cannibaleen spirits who live on the north of the world , spirits that they participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers remain in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has created two campaigns .
this is one , a part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we &apos;ve set it up for the top time to spend a significant amount of money trying to get a commercial action to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and we &apos;re still smelling good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quietly .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , the burning of coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkable clean coal technology that you see here , changes everything .
look closely , this is the today &apos;s clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative mixes with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other ways of being , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a picture i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
supply america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
supply america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are hitting our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
supply america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african adage : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get there , and very quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time that you were growing up when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab the hands , take the blocks and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist , inspired by the kind of interaction of our real objects , with my professional adviser patti and my colleague , jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we were to use computers that , instead of a mouse time , that would move like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work ... what if we could intervene with both hands and grab data physically and grab it as we want ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved by the hand , you can perceive each other , you can detect your movements , and you have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , it &apos;s physical , so you can only move it like building blocks by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other and sense the hostilities of our relationship with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is designed for the video recreation , and when i flip it in a direction , the video is played forward ; if i flip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going to go backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin five and methoxydimethylylylylyline .
so when i put them side-by-side , it makes their interest .
if you &apos;re surrounded by indians , you &apos;ll notice that too , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to realize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve configured three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour color in the middle where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can put a little bit back .
there are also some nice ways in education like languages , mathematics or logic games , where we give people the possibility of trying fast and seeing the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m making with a simple equilibrium program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable , randomly dedicated letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomoms snorting this stuff , this substance that they make from different species also contains methoxydimetric tryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you &apos;re remixed , and you have a new combination and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i was able to get them to try it out , and i took a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about this kind of application is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; educate words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are some more people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the bottom right .
it turned out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
to sniff this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle run , and being bathed by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickster twist .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by raising the siftable from the table , showing this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to bring a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can let the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , it &apos;s the resolution of reality .
... his own story invent .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performing , which we &apos;ve recently developed , and in the sift as a sound of leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one wants to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you just eat them up by holding a ton sift to a sequencing able .
there are effects that you can change live , like reverberation and filters .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who was the psychedelic ethirea with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the &apos; 30s , and i argued that you couldn &apos;t put those tryptamins as a hallucination , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re not there anymore to experience a hallucination .
and then over-ordered effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to eat the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and arrange it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel to it .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by flipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the barrel , for a little bit more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan it in the front field , but i can improvise it ; i have to extend it or shorten it .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken into the environment , because , of course , through a human intestine , the enzyme called monoamin oxidase , is denaturized .
and finally , i can shut down the whole sequence by tilting the loudstrength siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better at how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways that we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we &apos;re at the threshold of this new generation of advertisements to interact with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversations with all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be used in relation to some other chemicals that the mao denaturize .
i have to pick up a little bit about this , and that is biohacking is looking at modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology for a few years now with biohacking , and that &apos;s what i started doing , because i just wanted to know more , and i wanted to do it in particular , which i learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think the molecular biology in general is now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on it , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , already , is extremely important , and much , much more important is going to be in the future .
there are things as controversial as all these genetically engineered plants on the corners .
there &apos;s craig venter now in the u.s.a , which is trying to make biofuel , so gas from algae .
and then there are things that have already come to life , but most people are not aware of , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash with 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , when you think about it , can only meet you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which is contained in liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the way they need to potential the tryptamins , so ask themselves questions .
and so from the interest of this technology , this technology , i just kept going in there .
so why is that hacking ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then it &apos;s always going to be in the media , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started to do , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that is that the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started in the &apos; 80s with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be just a access problem , which is how things simplify , so any problem you want to throw up a question , and how do you do it differently , or how do you do it better .
and it just became a bit of a salary with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics range , and there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene that has electronics circuits doing all kinds of things that are going on .
and now , just in the direction of biology , and that &apos;s where i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because the d.n.a code is an abstract code that , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstringent plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and so you can hack it , like that , and i found that incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper into it .
it actually only took two thousand of the shapes , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe , and with a cooperation based in india , but has now members or active people around the world .
these are more artistic directions , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and collaboration with scientists who are trying to deal with these technologies and to ask questions and to process that creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really about finding such a locker access to having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , which is i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s.a , which is actually more of a kind of a forum where you get together and you discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also going to be a little bit more business , and they &apos;re going to be asked , yes , some applied questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene that i want to just portray for a minute .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of school , a private school , nonprofit facility , where anyone can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
here &apos;s a group in indonesia on the bottom left , house-of-natural fiber , which is the one that &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for a long time than those two other networks .
they &apos;re also in such an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics , and they &apos;re combining that in a very remote way .
a group of ankara , which i met a while ago , which is a group of students who wanted to convey more to the public what they learned in college , and they did so on street , and they tried to explain to people what that is , n.a .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination with technology .
and what you can do with it , and you can do it in the same way , and you &apos;re looking at society , and you &apos;re like , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do , do you have an interest in bringing you in with it ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology , you kind of need material .
you need , of course , biological materials , and you also need tools , and then that &apos;s a lab .
but when you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant is talking to us . &quot;
or , in a way , what you normally understand under a laboratory is that these are sort of discarded machines , extremely expensive , extremely distanced , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , so you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine actually has higher technology than most lab devices , it &apos;s really like this .
and s o with this premise with this premise , for example , brian degger , in england , tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cooker , a hot plate , and , yes , that &apos;s how fast bacteria grew , worked .
so anyone who &apos;s been playing a soup that they &apos;ve been out for too long has been doing it .
i then tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought some second-hand equipment on ebay and did some d.n.a analysis , tried to do a father &apos;s test , which is , you know , like , d.n.a fingerprinting , to go back home again .
now , this shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but it should be .
down here in the picture , you can see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s this kind of admitted garage with all kinds of lab scaffolds that the university has done , a group in paris that has done something , and is pretty successful with it , and also does quite interesting things , and i want to do a project for a minute .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so this is what you have to do with people who are doing this alone , all the way back to large organizations , and they &apos;re already doing it in an institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but it &apos;s always the idea that it &apos;s supposed to be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , o.k , it &apos;s now giving us a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founders , and said o.k , we &apos;ve got to really meet now , and we &apos;ve got to meet real , and then we &apos;ve organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and shortly after that in the united states , in san francisco .
and then it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want to say , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what are our targets , our foundation ?
and then we &apos;ve been working out a code-of-the-art conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , his and what &apos;s moving them , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we don &apos;t have that one , but that &apos;s , i think , is pretty good , and people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a great distance in the forest , which seems to us as a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yes , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to make a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then move in this focus , so that &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get this to the point where we might have taken a webcam , put it on the lens , turn the lens off , and then you have a microscope that scales up about four hundred times .
that &apos;s what you see down there .
and then we took a d.v.d burn apart , and we pulled the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera there .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot .
this is another project , which is from the french group there in paris , which worked out , which is pretty cool .
and that &apos;s , you know , he &apos;s got a brainwave measuring device like this , e.e.g , or something like that , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , it &apos;s gone .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating them , which is n.a , making fragments so that you can make them visible .
so if i do this now , the profilers at the crime scene , then go , collect some hair samples , and then they do this technique , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that are doing this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest way to go to four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyard , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you don &apos;t know anything at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve put two builders in there , and they &apos;ve said , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve got open source , which is free hardware , electronics , put this device together , and they &apos;re now the ones that have actually taken this to the marketplace , and they &apos;re now the cheapest vendors of these devices in the world .
i think it &apos;s kind of like six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a context where it becomes more available .
so , in my opinion , it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of airpress gun , which shoots about that far , two inches or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles , and then the gold particles in this air pistol , and then i shooted them on onions , and then i made them glow like this .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , but it &apos;s pretty much off , so on a branch , the thing on it , attached electronics on it and pressure , and that was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a chicken powder and i hooked it to it .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 varieties in full moon , and they &apos;re singing to one in a different pitch .
a chicken commute , if you make the full of water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six hundred bar .
and then you can accelerate the particles very much enough , and then they also go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about 50,000 euros to go up or something like that , son commutes about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
so that &apos;s what &apos;s happening now is the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same thing as once you &apos;ve done it or seen it yourself .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if , as an informed citizen , you want to make meaningful decisions in society and you want to be able to talk to you , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
well , that doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
and that then fires under the headwords open knowledge and citizen science .
so that , as citizens , you will be able to deal with these kinds of scientific technologies .
and this is the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who at least officially put themselves on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
this is already a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that is , i think , the people who are there are fewer people than actually exist .
so i know from some of you who haven &apos;t come in .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
and part of the time , with these hackerspaces , which is to put these places together .
