you know , one of the great sensitivity in traveling and one of the joys in ethnography research is to live with the people who still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the countless cultures of the world are a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important for the good of the earth as the biological habitat that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult state of indigenous people , look at them as orginial and colorful , but sort of narrow them down to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , is progressing .
and this is at the very beginning .
as i said , it just started two thousand .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first one , ninety-hundred , ninety-five .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that have been represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to be similar , and then we &apos;re pretty well connected , so that we can get more people involved .
and i would invite every time to deal with it and try it yourself .
it &apos;s not that easy now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in it , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era where we were , and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth is either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not change .
how do we actually work for people ?
that &apos;s a question that i &apos;m very moved as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and most of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media , and so they can create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that interactive media is addressing archaic , cognitive models in us , so thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can reproduce them just by interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-technology that you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now what are archaic models ?
i wrote down four words and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
now , archaic cognitive models , and that &apos;s the models that we &apos;ve adapted to in the pre-industrial times .
these archaic models are that we have basically natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance of new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that , and i &apos;m going to try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very visually , even though we use a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is nonlinear by definition , which includes the sensitivity of linearity , and which of course tells us that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that history , for us , is a place of information input .
now what about the virtuality that is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house they live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that directly to me , but this is what &apos;s going to happen and is going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the spirit , so they live in , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling to do the media campus , for example , to show virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do that all the time .
and this ability to virtualize the reality that virtual people needed bitter in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photographics .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that mind , the memory was played .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being less on sioux than they did bow and arrow tasks when the americans stopped being horse and horse cars .
in this mind , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they were also passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that , at that time , human beings were also media producers and medium themselves .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;ll talk about in a minute .
essential tools of information mediation have been stories ever since .
not change and technology threatened the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of rule .
shame , priests , so-called knowledge watchmen , were laid down to keep knowledge in stories .
and we &apos;re still very , very strong on stories today .
the storytelling author of the book , jonathan gotchall , as a result , we &apos;re still connecting a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the receptions of stories until the age of the grandmother .
now we think our love of stories depends on us being a child sitting on the lap of our parents .
no , no , far missing .
this goes way back to pre-industrial cultures .
but to me , in interactive media , as a particularly impressive thing about it , is that we &apos;ve anchored in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of the nootka indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very inselfish area , and you kind of had to navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with something called lead-land maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in that , from the australian people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-map maps , they used the so-called songlines , or garbage paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be mapped by songs .
and they were subordinated by the language of subordinated rang .
that is , you navigated over sound and through rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , enabled you to defragment these songs and put them differently and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing anymore to get from above a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
so this is the genital machine age that happened .
we &apos;ve moved in what we call the avian age before .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what &apos;s happened is the book , and it &apos;s the photographics .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories on external media .
on the book and on the image .
so , unfortunately , we have a piece of god to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the image , so not the television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media has fossilized our memories , and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people , is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally celebrated as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what &apos;s influenced our thinking and our memory ?
then the interconnected influences of pre-industrial cultures are .
and they &apos;re going to be more and more signed over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
so instead of individually remembering , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we no longer produce ourselves .
we have an abstract language , an abstract language .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures that things are not in images anymore , but we &apos;re coding you our language .
we &apos;ve become used to things linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetans if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
and we &apos;ve accepted linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we have left is the story story .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested with the storytelling as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyberage .
it sounds very spacious , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyber age , which brings us back these opportunities to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china overseas through southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear of : 6,000 sacred monuments that were transformed into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people killed during the cultural revolution by the kaders .
so if you look at google glass , for example , this is a concept that lets us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , to feel the virtual as something ordinary , natural , is being addressed again .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , this may sound in the context of my talk , because we &apos;re moving physically into non-existential , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can react intelligently to a human .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor &apos;s work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are here today too .
maybe you can get up for a second so that you can pause with the two of them on the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how this archaic cognitive model is addressed again .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the tag of the panch lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people are happy in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with some console in their hand .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s what makes me discover the outside world , so that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut down so much .
you can then explain that much better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that &apos;s about me exploring a city by looking at which places have been positive or negatively twittered .
that meant that , during the chinese invasion , he was immediately killed .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is i see negative and positive zones of a city , and so i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can visualize these virtual worlds .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve learned from the avian age , and that we &apos;ve been so upset in the machine age , that the cyber age can be activated again with what we call the cyber age , and that in this way , through complex , technological , new products , we can actually come back to our roots in this way .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this bag is going to be a talking sack , and mine will talk instead .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness , bringing people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but so far , i &apos;m just making it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers as well .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also concerned about the subject of curiosity , and how curiosity is changing our thinking again , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and rebound it , and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put in this kind of n research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the designers begin to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction , etc . , etc .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more natural , more useless , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s useless or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and before the background , i was designing in the field of natural user interface , so the next generation of the human computer in which , in the relationship of the human computer , is looking at how our tools , or how the computer changes from the computer , sukessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been thinking about when is natural or intuitive .
maybe it &apos;s got to look back at it .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , just briefly represented here , then we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that is , you &apos;ve found yourself by talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , you moved to the same cave , or in other areas , you &apos;ve created cities or villages , and you &apos;ve created a tribal society in a way .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very vivid .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two , to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no child can talk about nature , but we learn it sukessive and proportionate , of course .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
that was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which is what fluid and alive is , i start and i start to kiss it in stone , and i manipulate it .
depending on how i &apos;m kissing and when i &apos;m kissing , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s one kind of alive .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium , received suit .
then the next generation that we actually live in today primarily .
this is actually the printed script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just like a monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re really crazy when the people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , this generation change is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really at the moment in this phenomenal phase that we &apos;re doing something with us .
this completely confuses us , of course , because we see , on the one hand , the new media , social media , facebook and so on and so forth .
the sister who was doing this brave act was brought into an educational camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat , and no beef is more or other phenomena , which is , i want to tumble that , and i want to even do that .
and these two worlds are actually banging up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is rejecting a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
but now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means that the local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , possibly , as intuitively as possible , but also the total transparency .
as you knew at the time in the village , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today , through this expansion of our self , through these mobile ending devices on a global scale .
whether we &apos;re accumulating knowledge globally and getting faster and faster and better .
and one day , she came out of sight on a armband maos , and for that transmission , she had to go into a difficult job camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
now , i was looking at the background , what does it mean to us , what &apos;s natural for us , what might we have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because a lot of times , people come in , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly , so anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with that , which means that , and not only does it change , that it &apos;s different , but it should be better .
and when , of course , is a little intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , impact on it , and shape things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re potentially intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you go into the study , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s also something where you start and you look at it and you say , &quot; okay , i &apos;ll just look inside the inner self .
and what about it , actually , in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively , and how does our channels of perception work , and how does the cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetans can be intolerable , but the reducing spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said that you need to have a deeper to understand it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something useless or intuitive , what that means in the core .
and you can see that you have a our seven senses , most of us think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven that we recognize , there &apos;s certainly the next , eighth sense coming back in the future , and also , as an extension , back to ourselves .
and to look at how do we process information , how do we record information ?
just to say , what &apos;s information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means to detail .
but i have to understand at the core , in nature , when information becomes information , when do data and information know again , so that i know how to make things possible , or of course , intuitively .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
we see this here , when i design things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitively by showing things .
and at the end of it , we &apos;re really faced with a choice . do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia , or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see directly , where is salt and pepper in it .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll start thinking about where &apos;s in the right place .
and on the left , just intuitively access , and hopefully , i &apos;m hoping that there &apos;s no sugar in there , the salt is going to be like that .
but also , our perception itself , how it &apos;s deceiving us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small , even though that &apos;s not the case , but it &apos;s just the same size , and yet , our perception is changing depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , before she died , said that it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , shape-shifting , generic worldview , we would see not just the entire range of human imagination reduced to a mindset , but that one day we wake up from a dream , and we forgot that there were other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle already starts to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and when i &apos;m going to stop another halboval , we &apos;re not just going to see one more unit , which is circle , circle and circle , but we &apos;re going to see one unit , we &apos;re not going to see more three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is called the design law , or just gestalt psychology , which also affects us in perception .
important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
the design law of the nearby , the design law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget about it .
but that &apos;s a substantially important component , if you want to make things as intuitively as well .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in front , and now you think we &apos;re looking forward to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see from the back to the front .
that is , they projief an assumption that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just projessing our vision , before we see it , put it back in our sehep to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projured what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , that comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , actually , look back and see if what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what million-second areas these things happen .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , we underwent the cult of the seeds , replaced the poetry of the shame through the prose of the priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- took place only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see something ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i see that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you see him all the time .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i actually hired you , now , that you don &apos;t see a pattern in there anymore , but i &apos;ve conditioned you within a very short period of time to see this dog in this proverbial image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projecting forward , that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , really , really exciting processes , which then in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s just going to happen here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of take me out of the present to the last slice , then i can also bridge the very good wait times when i &apos;m doing it by engaging someone with three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
that &apos;s what he has to process as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does it take five milliseconds ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period that you fall in love with .
that means take care , if you know that now , look at who you look like a long time , because i don &apos;t take any election on what can happen .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , as we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we also see things that we &apos;re looking at , and as we &apos;re sort of reassuring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it that way .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing , or cognitive sergonomy , but they &apos;re primarily concerned with the subject of human objects .
so how does a person deal with certain things .
there &apos;s once a product linguistic functions , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions where i know exactly where i have to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why is there for such a little bit of a day where there &apos;s hardly anything in it , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
there we are more at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning , which , of course , we &apos;re looking at as designers .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the topic , which is , of course , behind , is usability .
usability always means , how can i possibly achieve a certain goal or how can a user in a certain context of use actually , efficiently and happily achieve a goal ?
that &apos;s what the norm says .
and in this song , we will be able to rediscover what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance of being able to flourish a space for all people and gardens , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible , use friendly ?
can i use that directly , or do i need the n manual , or do i need that kind of training .
and less usable or useless , it is .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently , making it more beautiful , doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s more manageable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software that we just saw , in part , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is not intuitive , or not useful , the i-pad in many areas or i-phone corresponding , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not only since apple has been a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i want to use technological devices to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , for example , are five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , it takes you five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , you only take an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph that i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be able to go home four hours more , but your employer , or somebody is going to come up with you for the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance for us to get certain things .
so if we go back to the software area , this is the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
then the next ones that have been working with the nem neural model , or mental model , as the software eergonomers , came up with an idea of something , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it much more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better than that .
the next generation of graphic usage surfaces has been working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape the behavior than it looks .
that &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , the appearance of success is becoming an app for usability .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and during the 50th years of the establishment of our sovereignty , they were forced to move in settlements .
and then , if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and not by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and even more immediate .
but that also brings me back to the point where do things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish and see my little friend here , what does that mean , from a cognitive perspective , when is it really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always a little intuitive for us humans , if i have to think very little about it .
so it seems that he doesn &apos;t like to think , but it &apos;s pretty easy to do .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
so , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , like the metaphor , then i can use that as a form .
that is , i can transfer an intuitive human action model into software and make the software much more user-friendly .
so , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive scheme of people , and now i &apos;ve already told you .
the old man &apos;s grandfather refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
it uses each of us and osat is an acronym , and it stands for guidance , selection , inform , transfer .
each of you does it all the time , but it does it unconsciously and kind of intuitively , or partly instinctively .
the model is already leaped in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s being used all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osat itself is going to be about 50 to 70-thousand times each of us ever after activity , so in sleep , you realized that it &apos;s going to be less frequent than the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , translate to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , sort of like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of usage friendship than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and when i &apos;m talking about this now , for example , in which i &apos;m going to orient as a review , select as a choice , inform in the case , it &apos;s going to come up to me , i can look at it in the detail , and yes , transaction , i can throw it in or send it to somebody , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of what we are and what we are capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was scared for his life took him all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , i can zoom back out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , i can filter on this now , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate , for example .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is a lot more intuitive and a lot more natural .
because i can reach things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me , is much more natural than if you can make things available over hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to conclude , a and again , to give the clue , designers also need to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , if you &apos;re a child , as a baby , is that you care about what excerpt you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents allowed you to play more or less in the pottery and move , the more , to speak , your curiosity , of course , is woven .
and curiosity is not learning .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why everybody who &apos;s here and is curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
now , i &apos;m talking about basically this whole environmental discussion , world demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give off plus-scale about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the slices of their slices were originally made out of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it off .
and it &apos;s amazing that we &apos;re dealing with something that would actually be self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have two years of phosphorus , and now , through phosphorus mining around the world , a lot more uranium is being put into the environment than is used in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium have been distributed in germany in our fields .
and we &apos;re going to pick that up .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night , or the raging storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s like , if i said , shake your child , it &apos;s only three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think of the weigh to the bathroom like that , our entire earth will be sooner or later a cemetery .
that &apos;s why you think about the weigh to the weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , he dropped his pants out of seas fur , and he defeated into his hand , and as the feces began to freeze , he shaped them into the shape of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re growing corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 kilograms per hectare , or calculating the square meter .
that is , we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we reform .
we can , of course , look at the garbage problem .
and everything is packaged or content .
for example , in openbach , 20 percent of the garbage is now windmill .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of you in the pre-wind phase .
yeah ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed stores on the sides of the fecalian knife , and when it was completely frozen , he amazed a dog with it .
that &apos;s balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement in the pigs over the solid ingredients .
people over the urine .
yeah .
so there can be no pigs with this .
because that &apos;s what it &apos;s doing , right ?
he used the dog , and he improvised a dish , he took the dog &apos;s skeleton , and he improvised another dog , and he swore over the ice sheets with the fecalian knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you give the people who talk to the people , if you say that &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;ll be refining and hostile .
and so , like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , so far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that is , the ants weigh much more than us .
that &apos;s how you can &apos;t make anything out of anything .
and because they physically work much harder than us , and because they live only three to six months , they correspond to their weight a little thirty billion people in energy use .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you can see how far away we are , what we really wanted to do , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , apparbach has a program , until 20 40 , you want to be here climate-neutral , right ?
you can only be climate change if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yeah ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees , right ?
yeah ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
you &apos;ve heard about this before , you know , some of the problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most striking bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really need to go back to cycles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about that .
the canadian government gave the inuit back in april 1999 the full control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-farming , no bioland , no progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
we &apos;re too many of them .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just like the biosphere was highly discarded , this happened with the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we make agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
so directly , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a night victim is still called honey pottery , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has only taken over , but has never given back to the farmers .
so the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they &apos;re out of infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yeah ?
china was different .
you &apos;ve been able to create civilization for five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you expect for the food that they &apos;re going to stay until they &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat , not to the nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
the real nice thing is , if you do that , you do agriculture , you produce biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , you can produce a farmer about a thousand dollars and wait for the plant to grow chickens and pig and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and what &apos;s great about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes down over 90-percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve reconciliation with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re so designed by the design that a farmer can just farm them .
that means going back the crime rates .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw a liter of old pot in , and then the plant would be ruined over years .
don &apos;t happen .
that is , we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not away at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something about it , write down , in germany , the best way to do it is in all the sewage facilities that are in france .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in offenbach , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankfurter plant could best regain the phosphorus .
and it &apos;s got to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been in holland for over three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world , which regains phosphorus .
they are the countries of somebody &apos;s home .
but we need that overall .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70-percent of phosphorus in the world .
there &apos;s opec a bunch of orphanages .
these are six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil supply .
and we will be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
it &apos;s not about making the existing a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and most of all , to ask , what is the right thing to do ?
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these kids , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yeah ?
imagine if , for example , your wife is sad when you &apos;re angry at her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
and there we go .
it &apos;s not scientifically accurate , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this lighting , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , right ?
one thing that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s not resource efficiency , it &apos;s efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better , and to put it down , and to lose all the materials for cycles in the burn facility , but to first ask , how do you include cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yeah ?
if i invite you to dinner and i say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open stream taste and a glass of water in it .
wonderful , what ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
we think polemics -- we think polemics is not persuasive , but we think storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yeah ?
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
at every place you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a garbage problem .
in the way that we think about north .
there &apos;s every footprint there .
156 nations send our tv channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is staying in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not debt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yeah ?
but if i ask you , how do you do that with your wife ?
what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heartfelt sorry , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum right now .
so not saving , losing , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , people in the high bow kicking out a coke can from the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s &quot; ne form of real behavior , right ? &quot;
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature , which is liquid .
no biologist , for example , would say that 50 percent or more of all species are just dying , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is almost equivalent to what we know as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we do a series of travels to the ethnosphere , where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders that they can be distracted by the seen , and hopefully , they will take one after the other , the central epiphany of anthropology : that this world deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all humans can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s building all over the place .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not all , of course , is supposed to be composable .
a television or a washing machine , and they &apos;re just using them , they &apos;re not using them .
just the things that are swallowing , like shoe soles , like brakes , like automobiles , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yeah ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yeah ?
so if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we find out what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so it &apos;s not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve surrendered microsoft as part of a single year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment in which you can either local or remotely deal with vast amounts of visual data .
but all that &apos;s in there is useful .
these are the first shoes to put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian pile , and the rubber can go to biological cycles , right ?
all of this is composable .
and of course , if we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they &apos;re helping with you , ask people questions .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they have changed the chairman twice now .
and i &apos;m not sure they really stay here .
so , help me do a little bit of that .
we see a lot , a lot of gigabytes of digital photos here , which you can get seamlessly and continuously , turn , rearrange in any way .
but it goes .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been represented .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now , so that if you swallow , if you break , you can go into biological cycles .
there are technical cycles as well .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back into the circulation .
that too , so in every store , you can get things back .
if you come to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the needle again ?
if the garbage is right now .
everywhere , these diapers are , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s up on the front of the deponia , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , that they can go back to cellulosic base , they can plant hundreds of 50 trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yeah ?
just if you take these diapers , you shrink them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the very beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate change , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this one is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in an area of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s sort of about a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yeah ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra group on that , cradle to cradle , where everyone can join in .
so not saving more , losing , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but smart waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpreter .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it says that i , as an interpreter , understand me as a translator , so in the english word sense .
interpreters are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have word for word to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and worthy slope , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already translate from german into english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re talking about poetry or even about poetry .
but it &apos;s very alien to layman , what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes .
you think that the composer wrote in the notes exactly everything he thought was there .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though it seems to be very , very precise , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green only , to not hear the sawl of the wind , not to feel .
that means that the interpret has to translate these unprecedented notes into another language , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today i want to translate to you what else i think is musical , so interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do the whole thing on german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be the equivalent for me to translate the translation of the translation of the translation .
so , the music works for me a little bit like the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a writing .
so it &apos;s not enough to learn to read only notes and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you learned to paint .
the point of letters is that you only recognize the language .
so you need music &apos;s learning process at least as long as the language spoken for spoken word .
now , there &apos;s also a degree of whether you learn how to use it , you can only passively understand it , or you can talk actively , to the musical native speaker .
the work of the interpreter starts kind of like a theater director .
after you &apos;ve chosen a piece to play first , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re going to research on the backgrounds of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composer .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you make comparisons .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , and it &apos;s not a picture , we can do something like that , to really show that this is a real representation of texting and no image .
the reasons why we write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think of yourself in that time by looking at , for example , contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , you also have , as an interpret , a rich knowledge for the composer that you play more often , and it makes you easier and easier to think in and feel .
the composer becomes more and more the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause , to play it .
now , because the notes are everything but an accurate record of the cause of composer , but only a scaffolding , i &apos;m now applying this scaffold to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i say , in my own words , what might be written between this framework .
and the key indicator for that is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play out to explain what these sounds might mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what you might mean for him today .
every tone , every phrase that makes sense , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own now personally lived .
it has to be consistent for me in this and now , or else i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i &apos;m allowed to have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been predicting for as long as i &apos;ve been revising .
how to reexperience a happy new day , over and over again , with the same rituals of life , getting up , breakfast , going to work , i do the same thing over and over again and over again .
i got older again a day that changes seasons , my pulse slows down at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i perceive the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me , and all of this also affects my composition experience .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , pleasant conversation .
you bring a new idea into it , and instantly it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we didn &apos;t try that way , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music that way , and you , as the audience , have experienced the music communicate alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play like that moment .
i can &apos;t play like i do in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and therefore on my palette of music sound , i &apos;m going to have even more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , too , but to get new ones .
have a nice concrete example of that .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano course for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jgurgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was fortunate enough to meet him very early , at the age of three , and so i was at my school time in his classes .
i was seventh 10 when i went back to one of his classes and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballad for me .
this is such a contracted part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
that &apos;s where he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the age difference .
because to me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over six .
well , with seventh 10 , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have any major memories .
i &apos;m playing the piece every few years , and it &apos;s been turning for me , although not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
one example from a very different area of this . monet painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but in different daytime , in different light .
he translated the seals in a different way , as he saw them , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the sea level .
the x-malicious interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
now , i &apos;m also older than chopin with two and a half years old when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with several orders of magnitude .
he lived only ninety-30 years .
and it &apos;s important to me to keep looking at the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep twin practice , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said , you know , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
when all the fingers move in time and just as it stands in the notes , sounds come out that sound like music together .
when that happens without a mistake , the student gets up the next difficult piece .
now , interpretation is hardly spoken in the beginning class .
well , there &apos;s a presto in the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and light signs , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know .
but even if you put those attacks , it still remains a little technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a wrong ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that to make music on the instrument , to do your own musical and to feel like it should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing , because he didn &apos;t pretend the parents , he won &apos;t do it himself .
that &apos;s like learning to talk .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then it &apos;s about another possibility , which is to make it sound about an instrument .
so people who have never succeeded have never felt immediate with their own body , what it &apos;s like to make a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes out of the healthy and the rhythm of the dance .
the continuous coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music for yourself when you get bored .
no longer needs to whistle or sing a song .
each of your own music is made when you &apos;re constantly complained with music on the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
both of them are not too late to start to find out whether they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that make the vocal chords right .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained to them that they &apos;re non-submersible .
so i ask , how professionally competent was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as they say today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix .
what i would regret , though , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still match them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an exceptional candidate .
but please don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas , these constraints for the available place on the screen .
that &apos;s where i say , but i &apos;m sure you can tell whether you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , you don &apos;t get rid of food , just because you can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say , do you care or not ?
whether or not the music is too sweet to you .
tell me what you feel .
over time , you get claims , and you want some more spices to be there , or taste even fine differences .
now why do i challenge my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , there were 6,000 languages spoken on earth .
we hope that it doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
an artwork you never look at has no power to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef , or a chef , needs to be eaten and not just looked at or swapped out recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults make active music , or at least listen to active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red now a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred years ago , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have evolved .
there was no piano in bach at the moment as an instrument .
it was just not invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sound opportunity of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t make .
also , from beethoven , you know , he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra rejected at the time as unplayable .
so the composers are dependent on us to reinvent the pieces .
so you can hear what you just thought of in your mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think in your mind today .
or what i &apos;m looking at today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what envy is ?
have you ever been neidian ?
and how did that feel ?
suck .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v piesel and myself , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the united states .
i say , ulf , what do you need in this big car ?
that &apos;s what &apos;s lost in the first year half of his value .
and at all , you worked much less than i did .
why do i have to afford so little car ?
and then i immediately think that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such unpleasant feelings like envy just disappear .
you can also try this in words like revenge or addiction or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
it &apos;s up on top of nasa &apos;s outrageous image .
the mechanism is from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then he picks up stones , so he &apos;s going to jam them up .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to sustain a lie of life to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or bring them down .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
this time , an anecdote , which you might know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained , the portrait wouldn &apos;t look very similar to her .
picasso says , just wait .
it gets more and more similar to you .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is , and how much time you need to learn something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a broken relationship with lying .
the artist tells you something , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see , if she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is sharing with you in such a portrait , something that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifestyle .
and not only in art , but in the folk , in mythology , in stories , it appears again .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility out of that real origin , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of that real origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful somewhere else .
this is what we need to do with what we understand under politically correctness , to bring it back and forth .
we need this lie at this point that sustains the deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
not only do we have art in folk poetry , but also in science such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies together .
and there &apos;s this story about the worchester &apos;s wife of the bischoir .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the man should come from the monkey , and , yes , at least there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or a common ancestor .
no , no , that &apos;s not possible .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from getting knowledge from it .
why do we need to prevent people from knowing something if it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that livelihood .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something like an organism that still exists , a stone , and whatever , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington university , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t bear these things .
we need to prevent people from getting knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism resolves , and what the traces that it leaves behind look like , something different than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a tendency for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , &quot; well , i &apos;m at the fire department . &quot;
and rick szeliski was conducted by microsoft , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotech things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral judgment used the word &quot; word &quot; because , we should try to replace it by the word &quot; though . &quot;
you do that once , and then you learn the sentence .
even though i &apos;m at the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotech things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the origin .
this little bub , who &apos;s not interested in the fireflies .
they &apos;re interested in firemaking .
but there are no clubs that we can look around , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
he signed up .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and you &apos;re delighted when the fire loads up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can only do when they &apos;re on fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that in the heart of the bub already knew that it was actually related to the fire , but it can &apos;t say that out loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps up immediately , without being able to do anything about it , and the things that you know they look very different , designed to sound much better for them and others .
that &apos;s how we get those words that we keep using in the language of politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we talk about that , the social relations are very disturbed .
we can &apos;t do that simply .
you can see that if we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and have this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
according to what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the reality that we actually know is valid to spread outside .
and i want to give you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example requires what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , say , leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not stopp material , material nature .
and if you have people who believe that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think that it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not out of matter , they themselves just from meat and blood , something of stone , to the earth , to the earth , to the delicate , to the unimportant , to the dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and now , from that soul , you think that it &apos;s kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , in latin , the air tune .
and if that air cap then pops over humans , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that &apos;s supposed to be present to our lives .
and if you have that premise , you understand the logic with which we experience that happiness , to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three paragraph , you still know from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic to us .
the computer vision algorithms have captured these images together so that they match the real room , where these images , all of which were taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and they see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatial in relation to each other .
this is the hardest part in my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie in a way that you can just get this logic wrong .
in that three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if it &apos;s right , it &apos;s not a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted him in particular here .
a third sentence that appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of soul .
they say , who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
here &apos;s this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say the channel is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are some that are much more spatial .
i can say everything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he has no soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately feels like this can be done .
it depends on a third sentence , which has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and predicted .
because , in fact , we would have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend it &apos;s impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we first worked on in summer to show you what i think is really the punch behind this technology , the photosynths technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the newspapers over and over again .
you have to present another philosophical issue here , a permanent burner from philosophy .
this has to do with us going back to the 14th century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the burian esel is named .
the burian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact middle between two large hairs , it will hungate .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so he &apos;s right in the middle .
so the natural things are imagined .
the same big powers with different presidential signs resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on .
it &apos;s only if you take another example , so if it immediately makes a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need a reason , and nothing else .
he automatically walks to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that instantly attracts you , then you also quickly feel that there must be such a thing as a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and you sometimes say , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who only happened in the computer with images of flickr . just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site and so on . each of these orange clubs represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the newspaper almost every day , that &apos;s what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like , who has no freedom of willingness can &apos;t be drawn to his actions and claims to responsibility , and therefore he &apos;s unsustainable .
again , here you have it .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove to you that there &apos;s something like freedom of welfare .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence is wrong , as if you had to take the opposite without proof , of course .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , you can practice that courage to lie .
practice that , for example , if you meet a human being that you can tell , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all spatial in this way in relation to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , then that would be a little bit incorrect .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience one where , of course , there are those predictants that you can &apos;t prove .
and you already have a problem .
because while they &apos;re busy making it clear that they can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he &apos;s deceived it .
because he &apos;s led them to a herring where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictants .
so , in the kind of shifting of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the magnificence of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember your self-lie that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself , i asked lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk and give my idea .
i have to be honest , you got it , i thought it was hard to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might like to introduce my island project that i &apos;m trying to introduce you to .
but of course , it &apos;s the sum of a lot of ideas .
i probably belong , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad green image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in karlsquiet , technical college , i think , today , is called kit .
and i was struck by berlin in the middle of the &apos; 80s , because i wanted to make renewables , and that was not what was going on in carrot .
you know , i never thought i was going to work at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
it was called all the kfa at the time , the jewish one was called kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but this is sort of doofes like n solar pendulum , which is sort of a hundred watts coming out of the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy collectively of engineering .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola human being that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word at all , because everything on the left was bad .
but that wasn &apos;t the case in the &apos; 80s .
it was just that there were self-managed alternatives , and one of them was sitting in crossberg in the multiplier yard , where you suspected the evil .
where the terrorist muscle was , but that was called the fuzzy , and it made wind and solar , and that &apos;s where i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what was said today was very touching to me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots democratic .
we were 20 people .
if one of them said no , the vetoprincip was completely crumbling , and for 10 years , i &apos;ve been challenging whether i might really waste my great engineering study to a very weak thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window of your child .
it &apos;s about weakness .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and it just came up with a picture where i wondered , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow , which was then , basic , unprecedented , collectively , if that was really the great thing to be .
and i did it up to six and ninety-six , and then with friends , i became a co-founder of the company solon , which then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world .
so a huge story , but again , we have a problem of a growing company , of course , and then we have two-thousandth , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and dedicate to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , what we &apos;re looking at , it &apos;s the same crazy again , that starts again , that people say , what &apos;s the rubbish , it &apos;s all not going to work , we &apos;re talking about stores ?
and i brought a project to you that i want to introduce to you now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how do you get a hundred percent renewable ?
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of you that have all been fused together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple crazy story , where could you use a memory of today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a fifteen percent renewable energy today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you build more wind force , the system begins to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell politicians when they occupy our facility in berlin adlershard .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island have .
the question was simple , calculated that was two thousand in 2006 , started the first contacts with the island , just do the math .
how big would you have to be , in fact , a battery to get an island like this on 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70-percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go on a slide again .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , a year , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power is being built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces , etc .
the world &apos;s energy hunger that &apos;s going on is erased with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s going fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of three of these , two of them are always waited .
yes , this is what a burden looks like down there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar plant , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or whatever , a system that can only feed in small amounts here .
our goal was to say , okay .
this is going to be back-up , and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger fraction .
somewhere here are a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can sort of take over the entire net .
you can only , of course , do that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
no one in the world has done that .
that &apos;s a little style , so you can also use your razor in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing research in adlershore ?
that &apos;s it .
but if you want to put together several of these intervertebrates and they &apos;re supposed to build a network , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get up to 70-percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , either , that &apos;s going to be made out of batteries .
that &apos;s definitely going to be an energy carrier , who then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , or table , that &apos;s going to be it .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was recorded properly .
you have to go to more of a seasonal memory , and winter summer , and not just make a day night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stink electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there at all ?
and then we did a whole bunch of simulations .
and we &apos;ve simulated wind and sun and the burden , and we &apos;ve come to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you get to the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes about 50 cents per kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents per kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , that &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent per year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
i &apos;ve negotiated investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social groups .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is sort of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re still 20 percent of this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the power supply company on the island , has meant we love it .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric proportions of the island at the scale one to three .
that is , we were looking for the first time to find the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from all -- from the entire collective memory of what it looks like , visually , the earth -- and everything is being connected together .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and strangely , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt of power , and it can get that performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we got out , in a way , simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , in fact , to get the full dynamic behavior of this net , so in the hall , it &apos;s now looking like this , in the back is the diesel , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the judges that we &apos;re simulating the net .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
and of course , we all share the same adaptability .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a certain culture finds access to the material world .
all these photos are interconnected , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
so here we see the same thing again , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we did , since two thousand , the hall was finished , up until now , two thousand , basically everything that was here between the single system of electronics , developed software , we did .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the issue of battery and the topic of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate , of course , to the battery , you also have to be able to communicate on the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing is that , in fact , on this island today , you can take away all the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion of how to move back and forth at the moment , energy as to how to do this , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we have to deflect the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island before , ask around , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
they get a model that comes out of all over the world .
you can go through n smart-grid , you can , by building the nets , yes , you should definitely do that , you should hear the percentage , but you will never get rid of stores completely .
and that &apos;s the message , like , n , a little bit .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have that rotating mass that causes a certain inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just made up of loud rotating masses of large power plants , wherever the wave is all around europe .
we look in this net , we see the 50 hertz , and when it gets ninety-nine hertz , we catch some valves , we go back in a little bit of a little bit of a merry steam , then we come back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , that &apos;s incredible .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , you can react to other things again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn off two milliseconds of this big battery .
and then you can see what there are enormous speeds there .
and the message now is , we need to get rid of these rotating masses , if we &apos;re sort of going to get our targets 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there at all .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run just means the power plant is going to go along to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal plant , because we don &apos;t do it , or gasturbating , because that &apos;s not going to happen .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also putting electrochemical stores on the grid .
now , luckily , there are a lot of studies .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use , grows and whose use for the user gets bigger and bigger with the application .
and at that point , people always come and look at our test , sort of , our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take a piece of the future out there .
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
you can &apos;t do it , you can &apos;t do it , you can &apos;t do it , you can &apos;t do it , you can &apos;t do it .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
that &apos;s precautionary .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to happen .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is , i &apos;ve experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed up with metadata that another person has entered .
we &apos;ve now got over 10 million funding projects , even to climb 10 megawatt-battery now to the german net .
this is going to happen next april .
so you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , that &apos;s like an autarke system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanders , they make autark , they have their own little web , which has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is , quite simply , if you &apos;re completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy , which is drilled out somewhere in the world and taken to them , you &apos;re an island .
then you just use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where you live .
and that &apos;s kind of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful for cradle to cradle that they said they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , the premium cola talk , that you can be a collective again , and use solar power , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and all right , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and also have a vision .
if somebody &apos;s struggled to get rid of all these sacred saints and share who they are , then my photo of the notre dam cathedral will suddenly be enriched with all this data , and i can use them as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse that use photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of cross-model social experience using other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to work .
thank you .
when steve lopez , the los angeles times columnist , one day went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin , who had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because out of steve &apos;s article on it later became a book that was filmed again , with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied at juilliard conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically done early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend you all to read steves &apos;s book , or look at the film , so you don &apos;t just understand the wonderful interconnectedness that was created between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was ultimately the instrument if that pun is allowed to get the mitthalarm , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine .
he spoke in a very hot and social tone about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , all of these are the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been preserved by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we came to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email that said nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic stages , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days in the streets of skid row , exposed to this horror and the torture source of his own mind .
and in the same kind of a lovely stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson at the walt disney concert hall , and he had this miserable flag in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in sleep .
i was scared , not for opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could fall into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about scale ladders and arpeggies and other exciting forms of didactic guitar .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes there was a complete change going on .
it was like he was standing under the impact of an invisible doctor &apos;s office , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin , and he started playing some of the snippets of violinconcerts after hearing , and then asked me to end up playing them : mendelson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa-pekka salons .
and i realized that he had not just an encyclopedic knowledge about music , but he had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i know only from my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a loving , educated , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i get it right ? your software allows , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used together by somebody in the world are basically linked together ?
i understood that this was the very nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that is deep inside of all of us , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
so what nathaniel did , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m going to play with nathaniel again , whether in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i &apos;d like to play something that i have stolen the cellist , unfortunately .
yeah . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , pathetic , a best-selling card on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , it was cultured in aquaculture after the supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do an event on the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what became this unimaginable problem for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests of bare .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish , the ones we love , the tunas , the healing mat , the salmon , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , i think or evil aquaculture , fission , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments about it . fisheries are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we &apos;re taking tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got 15 to one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call him don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of ourselves .
this food processing from 2.5 to 1 , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that evening , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day i called , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he doesn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i telephone with a few people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
let &apos;s call him don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed into food . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the manual , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
i loved this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s me even .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , i swear to god , who &apos;s been tailoring for chicken after this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way you get to know your fish , the better you love the fish .
i first ate him in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s sort of wired us up .
he came up on the table with a bright , almost shining white color .
then the extent of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked him .
wait twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call him miguel . in fact , he &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand underneath .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouths of guadalquivir river .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew beef cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make sure that this worked , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally switched the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flooded the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see are flooded channels and these dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we fought through the wetlands , and i chew and sweat , and i have matsch up to my knees , and miguel is quietly holding a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that i hope are in conjunction with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he is highlighting a rare glitary .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he &apos;s looking at a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more talking about rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the night before .
so i interrupted him . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-neglecting .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , just half of them are not being whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
and depending on a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
later on the day , i went around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was like a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we got the most incredible view , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your practices , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was totally confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you get your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief set of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we &apos;re losing 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , there were 600,000 birds on this site , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s now become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensely .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink belly , the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public good of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly because of the maximizing of the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos , by the way , shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the ground quality is better for the nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and they fly back 240 kilometers every night .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line of the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly it back to the night ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , a viable condition for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do that because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like them clean . i don &apos;t like them crisp .
it &apos;s this joyful , coiled taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite off the ocean .
i mentioned that to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us acts for ourselves to do the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
she &apos;s the last defense , before something goes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to look at uncertainty . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any contaminants . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their fish , a farm that measures their success in the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that has no contaminants , it &apos;s powering tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes out of the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that &apos;s carrying all the things , of which rivers today tend to lead with them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this one is leaving the water clean than it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only a farm that not only feeds its animals , not only a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that &apos;s literally a water processing facility , not only for those fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because that love story , as romantic as it is , is also enlightening .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future for good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re enjoying . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekends . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that ensure the future of good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we already produce enough calories to feed the world more than just .
one billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in the distribution , not total production .
now , i don &apos;t like that question because it &apos;s been the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agribusiness has just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call them what they are , a salary in wrapping , a salary that quickly detects ecological capital that enables that production .
this is not a salary , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our grain chamber is threatened today , not because of the decreasing supply , but because of the decreasing resources .
not through the latest mouths and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaw , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deeply anchored in our water supply that there would be no way to question it .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top , and it &apos;s never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
this is the one that goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that restore instead of using up , businesses that grow extensively , instead of just intense , farmers who are not only generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
and if i want to give you one thing today , it &apos;s that the sum of the data that we consume is larger than the sum of their parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information , that patterns emerge , and we see trends that would otherwise not be visible .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical mortality diagram of age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , say , accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle section here , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can take it one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circuit diseases and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we go on and sorrow for age , say , 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and if you look at the research , this is particularly true in men .
so you realize that looking at information and data is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
what we have here are the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive in a decade .
you can dive in in one particular year .
they &apos;re no longer taught to little kids , and that means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
you can jump directly to a certain excerpt .
now , when i look at this , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on what i &apos;m going to show all the spending in which lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with the theme of bicycling ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take a look at this .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t look or you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now i want to take this idea a little bit further with something that &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
well , after i elected government , i realize that the wikipediakatories that are most covered in time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediaset .
that &apos;s just to recognize when you take a step back and look at the whole thing .
so , looking at a particular one of these summaries , i can then go into time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamicoessions that you could buy to make a large number of salt dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so now we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re browsing on the web for the first time , as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from page to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;ll just show you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zooming technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump directly to a specific section .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , look at the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in my trajectory in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s how the supermarket is .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding up here .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve been looking at today .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past . here , i looked for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here for bing , or here , live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the site and call them back up .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the entire picture bigger than the sum of the files .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the escape of the flow of information .
we &apos;re talking about drowning in information .
what if we could turn that situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of always going from one to another , we can start to go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and see patterns that would have otherwise remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then this past data trap , maybe a new source of information will make sense .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to assemble a stereo system -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , then maybe we can even pull wisdom out of it .
that &apos;s what i stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a belonging portion of science fiction .
in my school , i went to school with the bus every day , an hour per hour .
and my nose always stuck in a book , a science-fiction book , which unleashed my thoughts into other worlds and , in a narrative way , satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also showed that , if i wasn &apos;t in school , i would travel through the forests and go and collect samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and ponds , i would take everything home and look under the microscope .
i was totally excited , you know .
it was always about trying to understand the world and to explore the boundaries of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and studied the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of miracles that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there were neither video games nor this over-saturation of computer-generated movies nor all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as kids , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook , painting around .
creativity had to be kind of out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship . it seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all the things that i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the nearest ocean .
i didn &apos;t discourage myself of that .
i annoyed my father until he finally made a dive school in buffalo , new york , just on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my trade-off in a pool of the ymca in the middle of buffalo in the winter , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years since now , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , cute human imagination .
until today , i feel deep awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as ever .
so when i went to see a job as an adult , it was filming .
that seemed to be the best way to tell my inner drive to tell stories , with my need to create images .
as a kid , i was always drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories . that &apos;s the fittest .
of course , the stories i chose were from the science-fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions were kind of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened at &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that was , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took on computer-generated animation , cg .
and what came out of that was the first computer-generated software surfaces that was ever in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring money , in fact , he just played his production cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went off .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be brought into the art of film . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy there , and the success depended on how this effect would happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the impact in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve been playing a little bit more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from those two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
so i started a company with my good friend stan winston , who was the best make-up and creature-designer at that time . it was called &quot; digital domain . &quot;
the basic idea of this company was to jump over the phase of analog processes with visual printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
and then we did that , and we made a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that , in creaturial design and design -- which we had actually founded the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to push the measurements in visual effects and computer-generated effects at whole new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made by the cg , and the main characters should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was pretty much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we weren &apos;t able to do that yet .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship . &quot; it became a love film of epic dimensions , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i actually wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , being one of the last people to talk to your language , not having a chance to pass the wisdom of the ancestors , or the hope to expect children ?
and as a result , the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
this is hugely important . it &apos;s a good trailer for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but that &apos;s going to come back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a film , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
those days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much this deep-sea walk , like a space mission .
well , they were also highly technical and needed extensive planning .
you go up into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was quite obsessed with studying the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that had to do with curiosity and science . it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had seen before , and that science had found at the moment when we saw it , had no words at all .
so that really upset me , and i wanted more .
and so i made a little bit of an unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice for a while become a full-time researcher . &quot;
and then we started to dive to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiber optic cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any resources for it . so we developed the technology that needed it .
now , i &apos;m sitting there on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i see planks that are quite similar to this board , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly through the ship with a little robotic stuff .
i &apos;m actually just serving it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjí-vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner at each time , i always knew what was going to happen in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over the movie set for months when we were shooting the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so that was a very , very strange experience .
and she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars , so that you can put your consciousness in the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore something , or do other things , in all kinds of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
so after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we saw down there , for example , these deep-sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals . these are sort of alien animals , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playful , nase-haired trimmer and crème brèlée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was the science fiction influence of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who are dealing with nasa , who are in the nasa expert council , and they &apos;re planning real space missions , they &apos;re going to russia , they &apos;re going through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going to fly to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , i took space scientists with us to the deep sea .
i took them , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually , science , in particular , did space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation to reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be there soon .
in the course of this exploration , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think that a director must be able to lead , a leader must be like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i arrived at these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s coming out of that ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re just playing the cost of production . there &apos;s no trace of fame .
everybody thinks i &apos;d run out of titanic and avatar , and i would have celebrated the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you &apos;re going to do it for the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that we have . you &apos;re going to do it for the discovery , and because of the strange connection that comes out of a small group of people forming a team .
because we did all this with just 10 to 12 people who worked for years uninterrupted , sometimes we were in lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a job that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say to yourself , &quot; we just didn &apos;t have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain it to others . that &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have gone through something together and know that they can never explain it to anybody .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which was that you respect your team and you earn yourself in the opposite direction of respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
it &apos;s an enormous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
it changed my way of making movies , completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d done a really good job of doing these oceans and transporting them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more basically a way of doing my job , the actual process that changed in the outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human quality .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the idea of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i get young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me an advice about how i can do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t constrain yourself .
get other people for you . don &apos;t do it for yourself , don &apos;t bet against yourself , but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has a favorite sentence like this : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploration , it has to be an alternative , because there it guarantees a trust shot .
no important endeavor that required innovation was ever done without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time employment at the foundation is basically about vaccines and seeds , to allow the things that we need to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion lives to be better .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds will not grow over many years , it &apos;s us too much or too little . things will change the way their fragile environment cannot .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
also , the energy cycle is very important to you .
the fact is , if you could only reduce the price from one thing to the poverty reduction , energy would be the most effective thing in a long way .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly dies and takes the last syllable of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we meet a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they add the exhausted co2 , which leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature increase has some very negative implications . effects on the weather and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact relationship between a co2 increase and the resulting temperature change , and where there are more consequences , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists a couple of times , &quot; do we really have to get close to zero ?
is it not enough for half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck , which has to be under a three-meter bridge , and you can kind of squeeze that underneath .
health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go all the way down to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to make changes that are going to drop to zero .
it &apos;s been up constant .
only different economic changes have influenced it at all , and we have to go from rapid rise to reduction and to zero reduction .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , the services that every person uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s going to go to nine billion that are going to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we could probably reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heat .
these are very good things , and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make a dispute and use less , but on average , that number will increase every year , and so on average , more than double , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the building of the house , there are many services whose energy levels are decreased by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizer making , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playroom for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three reduction , or maybe even a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s the question of whether you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and the service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually you &apos;re just wrong , and some people come , some people don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to them , you know , there are people living with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that the release of fireflies would be my contribution to the environment this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told that they weren &apos;t going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of playful solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or another , that have an incredible scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions that people are looking for , i really see only five that can provide these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out time , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core point here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they intimidate us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning coal or natural gas .
what you &apos;ve got to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you &apos;ve got to get all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after you burn , get stuck , get under pressure , and then somewhere , and hope it &apos;s there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but it &apos;s going to be very difficult to get . and to get an agreement on the co2 storage is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the waretime question .
who &apos;s going to make sure ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times bigger than any kind of garbage you can imagine from nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high . the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human cooperation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the garbage ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concern about it .
so three very difficult problems that might be solvable , and that &apos;s why you should work .
the last three of the five i &apos;ve summarized .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need any fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that makes these technologies dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , thousands of times more area than a normal power station .
and also , these sources underlie interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and it doesn &apos;t seem to be the wind all the time .
that &apos;s why , if you depend on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big price challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where it &apos;s going .
and there &apos;s the warehouse problem .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made , you know , for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now might be less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources over 20 percent , say , of the use 30 percent .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible battery .
now , where should we go ? what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on it . hundreds of them .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here at ted who are already engaged in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies that have great things and interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i finance a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we all talked to a language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let them be canopy .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for making decisions from somebody who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to somebody who doesn &apos;t know and is most likely to be sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear section ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are around .
the terrapower-concept means instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never do reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right kind of material approach , it looks like it &apos;s working .
and because you burn that 99 percent , that &apos;s much better for cost .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a propulsion fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; walking wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the uranium used .
that &apos;s what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you film ocean water cheap and easy , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise for us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully wallowing and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reorder their generation of electricity .
the other note is whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest of it .
that &apos;s terribly important .
that &apos;s going to be a key element of this testimony .
if we go back from there , what should the 2020 testimony look like ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the effectiveness measures to get reductions on the way , and the less we emitte , the less carbon dioxide will be , and therefore the temperature will be .
but actually , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t lead to the big reductions is just the same , or even a little less important than the others that are the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we have to follow these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework where this can be discussed in a broad way , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we &apos;re inventing this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway down energy without co2 , i would take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get this wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term thinking people will be terrible , between the u.s. and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of the lives of those two billion will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice as to how this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we need to do ?
what kind of action do i appeal to ?
we need to use ourselves for more research .
when countries are meeting in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market taxes , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the news .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the great scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we only need a couple of millions . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , find another billion , the regularia and the place that actually builds the first of these .
as soon as the first one is done , as i promised you , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear , as we know it .
to understand that , it means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process is starting up and continuing to work down ?
bg : right . now , you &apos;ve got to keep refilling the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up or get things out . that &apos;s not good .
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they buried without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor who provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the garbage that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our fill , and so the volume of garbage is dramatically reduced during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet set ourselves in a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting openness rules for everything called &quot; nuclear . &quot; there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china ... i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits for the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and japanese did something in the direction .
this is a version of a thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first one .
that means every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , timeline and probability of really creating this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then 20 years to use .
that &apos;s sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep that easy .
and luckily , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds that , as well as if their approaches work , can provide promotion for their pilots .
and it would be best if it could create multiple , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
now , the great breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then as quickly as they could get children as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but they might say that about us .
and so there are different things , but the beauty is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as one , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , it plays the potential , so the impact on the country and other things , almost in a league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to take emergency measures to try to keep the earth &apos;s temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you ate too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research that &apos;s called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together to run .
this is just a insurance method .
you hope that we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that in case things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change makers : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things you can say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems , is to invest in something that you have only later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be &quot; i . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it emitting co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;ll probably accept it , because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the björn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 , all the other goals suffer from that , the reduction of poverty , the decrease of malaria , and so on , that there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money in it , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than they do today -- that &apos;s not that dramatic .
it &apos;s not meant to suffer other things .
you get big money , and here &apos;s where people can disagree with reasonable people if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and try to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is going on .
unless you &apos;re very short of a cost-breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris that you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing their lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
now , his new masche is , &quot; why is the research not going to be discussed ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and that &apos;s why he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . the team of four have to build the largest free structure with 20 spaghetti , about a foot tape , about a foot thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top of it .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it really seems really easy , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
you talk about it , you think about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re borrowing around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and they put spaghetti out .
they invest a lot of their time in assembling growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow , and you put it very gently on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but then what happens , almost always , is that the &quot; ta-da &quot; becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow is that the whole thing is banging and falling down .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they produce really drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams that have much more &quot; ta-da &quot; and the best ones are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does that come ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the children spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing him .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what makes kids different is that they start with the marshmallow and they build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have several times the ability to repair bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every trial , the kids get immediate feedback , which works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the power of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most of them is about half an inch , bwl students create half of them , lawyers a little bit more , but not a lot , kindergarten kids are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all picking up questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-replicating geometric patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos is a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they become significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see &quot; this team is going to win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that going ?
because they have special skills of processing companions .
they lead the process , they understand it .
and that team that rules and will look at the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i have to do to you and not get good grades in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six teams that have stable structures .
i was trying something very exciting .
i thought , let &apos;s put the poker in the same way .
so i offered a $ 10,000 price of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody built a two-inch construction , they would have paid the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same student .
so what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually invest time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute of every day from every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge offers a shared experience , a common language , or basic posture , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of people optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connection sport .
it demands that we all put our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of that experience is to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; moment to a &quot; ta-da . &quot;
there &apos;s a corner that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , by the way , that the wirelesslan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
so let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then suddenly you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you , because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and i don &apos;t want to be an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time there has ever been on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re putting on : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining rates of disease .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death number .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today is expected to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we &apos;ve constrained them . phew .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have already threatened only one generation before .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our mobile phone on one hip , and our blackberry hip on others , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphlet , rotate , paralysis of children ...
does anybody even know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method to try things out , see if it works , change it if it doesn &apos;t , one of humanity &apos;s greatest achievements .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world in a way .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilating a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think we can do that .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the country they live on .
i think we can power this world that they don &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as we do now , ever .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re on the verge of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven over these things more seriously , more fronts than we are now .
people are wrapping in their beliefs , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate them .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion ; even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i answer this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right to do ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for the new yorker , a little article .
and i was struck by resistance , by resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article on genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were going to move around in a certain way , rather than a random way , was an exposure to nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be very different from your child &apos;s football game .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we pass in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics , who made me crazy , were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s be honest .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we talk about it in terms of the twin .
we &apos;re talking ironically about it , with little leaders around it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what are the reasons .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why that shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just name a couple of names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen , and hopefully never see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that brought the autism epidemic to the maser , mumps , and tubes of vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were done to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done , and that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , none .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe we do , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where vaccinators are falling for masses .
that &apos;s scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has masers ?
does a single person in the audience ever see anyone die of masers ?
doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 an hour .
but because this hasn &apos;t happened here , we can deny it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and that &apos;s something that we need to learn , and very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey across the ethnosphere , to try to understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , are they good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotaviral vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them back , you go back , you know , horrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s going on .
we have masers in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , kids will die from it , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masers .
what about paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitary of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , i think i &apos;m a little bit too shrimp .
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have paralysis . and you know what ?
we had no paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning went on an airplane and just went to los angeles , and at the moment he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidancy that helps you to jump .
i know they did that because half the americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find out that they &apos;re useless .
the data is all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do more .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishing cold and soulful to ourselves , who can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going to the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what &apos;s it going to take care of you ? let people do whatever you want .
that &apos;s how you feel . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , it &apos;s very hard to decide .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer-quality salber who wants to treat his patients with caffe-rung .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic are replacing and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that gets worse than any other person in this disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponent genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study of voluntary retirement investment .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
that &apos;s ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice scorn , every branch of petersily , every roseed , was changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupee melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all that .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of them worked , and some of them didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more specific . and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and that stuff can help millions of people extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment acts of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we refuse genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is , too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer was offering , took the participation by two percent .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid of a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from bloom .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we are right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees than if they were only offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it doesn &apos;t have nutrients , it doesn &apos;t have protein , and scientists are building all that in it .
and then people could eat the food and wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now , there are some of us who , in a way , forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose to push it up tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do it as we &apos;re guilty of something we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , i think , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy of our own , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes tomorrow .
anyway , i certainly want that .
at the moment , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to go , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to .
we need to have these conversations , and we need to think , but as we get into the time machine , and as we go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it as i do , as &quot; a deception that becomes something real , if somebody believes hard enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills , in some studies , have shown a measurable effect , the placebo effect , and it &apos;s just because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes in a solid enough way , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it &apos;s also so hard to make decisions that they miss large investments in their employers .
a deception becomes something real , because somebody perceives it that way .
so , in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you an elementary , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my fault .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year to the employer who would have been happy to produce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of my sleeve , i &apos;m just going to push my wrist right here .
in this way , you can see that no time is moving . as long as i say anything here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully if everything goes right , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickle , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids that are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very easy trick to do .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
here &apos;s how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because that &apos;s the real secret of illusion in it .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger here , my index finger , just moving from where he was , into a position where he was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it processes information , it doesn &apos;t count one , one , two , three , but it sees it as a group .
but that &apos;s not really what this is about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger moves back .
i take that hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew me up .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
because what it turns out is , if you offer placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill , which has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color these blue and you shape a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , even though none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s forever , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really made me freak out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all that stuff .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any form .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics now . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that also the doses matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an uneffective -- a few milliliters of an effective substance that you inject to a patient .
that creates a very strong image in your head . that &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill , which doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that makes a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from that study that you have to reach the needle if you want to go to the needle .
this is a 30-inch hutneedle . it &apos;s very , very sharp . and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so this is the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end less happy with the outcome of choice than if we had had the opportunity to choose less choices .
this is really my flesh . it &apos;s not damians &apos; specific meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and push it through until it came back on the other side .
if you get bad -- if you &apos;re easy to fall in -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has almost gotten fainted .
so i propose , if you get bad quickly , you look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part here in the back .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little entry .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , it &apos;s like this again .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had with the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s probably not so stupid and it &apos;s going to break itself through the skin , just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t see that right . &quot;
for example , take this kid from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they came up with mythologically the milky flow from the east in the belly of holy snakes .
one of them is determined by the great selection of different salatdressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and , you know , what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happens is this image-presented alternative that leads you to regret the decision , and this regret works negatively on the satisfaction that you made from your decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can rotate it around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back or the ones who see this on video afterwards will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , he would -- you see , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is not to regret at all , that is disappointing to the choice they make .
but i think in this frame here and with the intention of making a deception something real , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll look forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published &quot; happiness &quot; in the title of the last five years , and they gave up about 40 , and there was a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive cases that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive drops .
secondly , what economists call the oppertunnel cost .
that &apos;s true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists thinking about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as messy as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word &quot; happiness &quot; is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between happiness in its life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by saying how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it to .
and then he added in , really quite emotionally , that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it had ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present , that is able to experience the past again , but basically only the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is attacking -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt if i touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a reminder self , and the memory itself is the self that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are lots of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that they exclude , that makes them less happy with the alternatives that they chose .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something .
these are two very different units , the living self and the memorable self , and the two of them are confused in the very different part of the concept of happiness .
well , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts right away .
we &apos;re not just telling stories when we start to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful today , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who listed more of them ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his intestine was longer , and every minute of pain , the patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very generous or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is far worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than she was for b in the memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the alive self , b clearly had a worse time .
well , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical trials , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in there without shaking it too much .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve done a lot better than that , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a a a a better story about his experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hampton .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
what makes a story look like is outbreaks , meaningful moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one after the other .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds long , which means there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 of them left behind .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you kind of get the impression that you should count that what happened during that moment of life has happened to our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memorable self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is dealing with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in that way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memorable self from a living self , and time has very little influence on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself is doing more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two daring mirrors in two different surgeons , and decides what to choose , the one who chooses the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of yourself as one that kind of draws the living itself through experiences that the living itself doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we make vacation very often , that &apos;s the case , that means we make vacation largely in the service of remembering ourselves .
and that &apos;s a little bit hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much of our memories do we consume ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the color blue and green , because the sky scene is the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think about a vacation that we made a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i had ever had , and i think a lot about how often i think about other vacations .
and i probably went from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , about 25 minutes in the last four years .
well , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 images in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetite do i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are being destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide that conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think in the sense of time you get an answer , and if you think in the sense of memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we have with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two types of self are two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the self alive ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask for the luck of memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mask the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m a lot of researchers about well-being , who have massed the exploration of happiness in that very way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two species of self .
and the main lesson we learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of the correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks following the thought that he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you were to meet somebody and you were to tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has put their lives on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their own living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know a little bit about what determines happiness itself .
we know money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you &apos;ll end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs are decreasing the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t imagine happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t think clearly about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are , you won &apos;t get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier when they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could go to california at the end .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who move to california in hopes to become happier .
well , your living self is not going to get happier .
and the more options there are to choose , the more attractive properties of this choice are considered to be the oppertunnel cost .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were phone calls a few weeks ago , they were talking to me that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something you can let us participate in , because you have a few minutes left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money will surely give you misery , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the spirit of the other self , of the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american endeavor , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to put everything on their head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , that the country would generally take a finding like the seriousness and make policy based on it ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of the research of happiness in politics .
recognition will be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are about to recognize that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to study life grades , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the experience itself .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe about doing things slowly .
that will affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that will , i think , be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
right now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one important point he makes is that whenever you choose to do one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you might be thinking , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute for the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that it took the time for 21 billion hours to play a week .
this may first seem a little bit ridiculous , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical for the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language , and a marriage statement called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry somebody who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will make them less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you &apos;ll see some nuances here that look up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . great . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so overwhelmingly positive that you didn &apos;t even know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get there , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually able to do something like this . that &apos;s an epic victory .
three : escalation of expectations .
this player is right in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world , when we attack the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are against all the adversity on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we tend to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? ok ?
that &apos;s me making that &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we are better in games than we are in real life .
that &apos;s a problem a lot of players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good as we are in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t mean just less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in games worlds . i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are transforming into our best version , anytime and instantly willing to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again , after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , we just don &apos;t have them in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft that provide the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories so possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , immediately .
i wear jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a job that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their skills , so they have to work hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and rotate . there &apos;s always a very important thing to do .
and there are tons of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingernap , you have a bunch of staff ready .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a kind , and they bought them , and they were poorly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they had been wearing them long enough and often washed enough , they started feeling &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; plus-one strength &quot; or &quot; plus-one intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one talk and plus-one crazy idea , plus-20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory that we prefer to spend our entire time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of craftsmen have spent 5.93 million years trying to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it might sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to rise .
so to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like a few jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we &apos;re currently spending playing , it just makes sense , when you &apos;re keeping your eyes on the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , because it turns out that by using all this time to play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing to think about collaborative , heartfelt beings .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person in a country today spends 10,000 hours with strong play online games to the 21st year .
so 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the accurate amount that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to graduate school -- if you &apos;re never missing .
so here we have a complete parallel education where young people learn exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; superfly . &quot;
and the seller said , &quot; do you want snake , lightweight or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of the 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject to the 21st year , we &apos;re going to master it .
we become so good at doing whatever we do , like the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is a full generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have sort of unprecedented human potential .
so many people are in the world right now that spend at least an hour a day playing online .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at &quot; something . &quot;
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want buttons or caps ? stone or acid washed ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile nets , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , imagine this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a reasonable hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider social nets .
do you want to delete jeans ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we like more people after we &apos;ve played with them , even if they defeated us evil .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play with somebody a game .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are going to be kept , that we have the same goal , and we stay there until the end .
so the interplay allows the growth of ties , trust and interplay .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warfare players play 22 hours a week , so to speak , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at work harder than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that we work as human beings optimally when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always ready to work hard if they get the right job .
do you want to cut way down , cookie , blah blah ... &quot; and so on he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the terrifying missions of planetary size .
here &apos;s a backbone dining to bring this to the right , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 contributions , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve compiled more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the peculiar thing about these big houses , which are spoken because of the mischew , six or seven languages , is that you never hear anyone who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the species that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we will witness not less than a mass emigration in virtual worlds and online play environments . &quot;
and this is an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can form stronger social ties in games than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to do all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passing jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says right now , it &apos;s totally logical that players spend more time in the virtual world than they do in the real world .
i agree first , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start to turn the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years back .
there are these ancient cubes , sheep &apos;s cubes . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep cattle .
and these were , in a way , the first people to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you might know this story . the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games were invented , precisely , in the kingdom of lydia during a famine .
i got it better . all this choice allowed me to have it better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to be a crazy idea .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the box game and agreed a national strategy . one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the box game , because games are so fascinating and surround us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
same way , i think , we &apos;re putting in games today .
we use games to get out of the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get out of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need out of the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to make a last box game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a box game , and the winners were allowed to break up an epic adventure .
they left lydia , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there was food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of the area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrussians who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to the idea that herodotus &apos;s crazy story was actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
you might actually have saved your people by playing games by escaping into games for 18 years , and then having that intimation and learning so much about playing with each other that you saved the entire civilization .
so , we can do that too .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warfare series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should make sure that half of us spend an hour a day playing games , until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question that i &apos;ve spent the last few years at the institute of the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations of what makes it possible for a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then empowering people to put this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i designed to try and create people &apos;s epic victory in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been doing it since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained the habits of the game .
so for the next global game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we developed the game superstruct at the institute of the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people only have 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global extinction system , of course .
when they came to 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we designed almost like a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-beaching , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody is in the dream-team , and our job is to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that you can read when you google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3rd , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award of the world bank , the award of social change , in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on this . we have &quot; level high &quot; for local understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people around the world , especially in the developing world , who are benefiting from together to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to get tight social networks , urgency optimism and the desire for epic significance .
i really hope that together we &apos;re playing significant games to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
if i look ahead in the next decade , i &apos;m sure two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always taken my synonymous dictionary in writing , but i &apos;ve done the process of texting , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , mutilated , mutilated , wounded , oriented , separated perceived , served , impotent , castled , paralyzed , handed senile , aged , pulled out of traffic , replaced , broken , counted , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh at first , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; oriented , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk on , and i had to stop reading and collect me after this flooding word and the emotional shock associated with it .
of course , this was a great , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the output had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was an issue in the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting elementary school , and starting to build and shape my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen and you start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this assignment seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i am celebrated for the odds and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately got the 2009 output , and i expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms shoot me all and healthy .
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , really believed that the language of an escape has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about can also manifest .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to call a person mindlessly as a child might be enough to restrict them and to give them ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors to them ?
one person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo , a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always carried very colorful flies and was just created for working with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual exercises , infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine , i actually negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day , he watched me do one of my exercises -- these practices were just tiring and scarce -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to rip one day one of these tapes .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you all didn &apos;t know what it was about .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick from dr. p. , so i do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the idea that the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital station in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and so i could imagine myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethal people .
this is just one example of how adults in power positions can prompt the imagination of a child .
but as the examples that have been quoted from synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to enable anyone to think of themselves as powerful people .
our language is following the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and beyond the limits that have given them their natural destiny to develop out , at least not to speak of social networking platforms , and people are enabling themselves to define themselves in their own way , and therefore to guide around the world to groups that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something very special and very powerful to society , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people kept asking me to tell me how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence never fit for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable answering the questions of people , and i think gradually i understand why .
this phrase from dealing with adversity lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on solving a challenge without being shaped by the associated experience , as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the possible falls of a life with a prosthetic prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to upgrade in order to deal with our lives better .
adversity is simply part of our lives .
and i tend to think of adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make the impact at all , or the severe struggle of a human being .
there are opportunities and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is dealing with it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with it or not , but how we deal with it .
so we &apos;re not only responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but also preparing them to get good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we make them feel that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to experience a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things : one , the medical fact , to be amputated and to the other , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and perpetual disability i had to deal with is that the world is constantly meant to describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people we care about , and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even to give them a projection of the quality of life that they expect , we don &apos;t have to give them the baseline that somebody is actually disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just paying attention to what &apos;s broken in one , and how we repair that , for each one of them , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive and recognize all its forces and all its possibilities , we create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might need to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , between perception of our inadequacy and our great invention , there is a connection .
we should not deny or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we turn them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds of opportunity .
i might rather be aware that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome viability , but that we are open to embracing it , putting it on the shelf , and also using a fight term and maybe even dancing with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is that things are as good as you would expect .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of viability as something natural , coherent and useful , and we don &apos;t feel so blessed by their presence anymore .
this year we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed out something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of his kind survives , and not the most intelligent of his kind , but the one who can best adapt to change .
conflict emerges creativity .
not only do we know from darwin &apos;s work that the human ability to survive and thrive is determined by the struggle of the human mind to turn through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re out of when we &apos;re really being tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of adversity , a sense of iconic , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can create a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
they &apos;re never going to be surprised , because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can think of adversity as a change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage that we &apos;ve added ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . the typical . but not the normal , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if you really had them ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could swap this paradigm of normal versus a different set of possibilities or strength to make it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills into the society .
anthropolgene found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals had contributed older people and people with severe physical injuries 60,000 years ago , and that might have happened because the life experience of these people was valuable to society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up in a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a shadow tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts on .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it made click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married with a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from narratives of my mother that day , because , of course , i was very typical , two weeks late to my birthday .
my mother &apos;s prenatal diagnostic doctor was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born with no legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i had just a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the overbringer , this stranger had to get the bad news over .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i &apos;d been hallocated with the scrap finders at the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he was using these clips to teach his students , medical students from hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you just can &apos;t emphasize enough how critical this factor can be for a human being &apos;s quality of life .
and dr. kean kept on saying , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they &apos;re not always told something else , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids to themselves , then kids can achieve a lot . &quot;
see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over the course of time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 if i had swapped my prosthetic legs for flesh and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have been hesitated for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe this change could happen because i &apos;ve met so many people who have opened doors to me , instead of meeting people who wanted to restrict me or overcome me an idea .
you see , it really needs only one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own inner forces -- the human mind is so reception -- if you can do that , and you open a door for somebody in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open their doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to produce something that in one is to tickle the potential out .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was peaceful in 1958 .
but it &apos;s not always a bad thing to leave behind .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into total schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided by grades .
and the a students are checked up tirelessly , get the better teachers , etc .
they then , over a three-month period of time with a &quot; enough , &quot; the note &quot; very good , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart , that in reverse , students were told that they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- except for the students who had failed school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers had not refused .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad jeans sitting there when there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that the one-size-fits-all students , and the students are enough with the note , and so they taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind , a mind that has been broken , has no more hope . he doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . he lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human mind to continue hoping to find ourselves and other people around them beautiful , curious and imaginative , then we truly put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the boats , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , he always says , &quot; come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or would you like to be fitter , stronger , more force .
when hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to become more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those that has always been looking for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
what would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor on the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology makes no sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the proof of biological evolution , this would be a very good moment to turn off your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing else will make any sense for you in this talk .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it successful for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this image , i put a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the species that exist in the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we are quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually for most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this , and we can devise the mechanisms of a common bacteria to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically indifferent from what comes out of the pancreatic .
and as we talk about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut leads more bacteria than it leads cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to provide all the nutrients that they could only wish to do without any effort on their own .
and so , when people make decisions , and even if the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s really a light way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go off .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they help to digestive essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in the form of a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might be better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-celled organisms , perhaps as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually form in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single day ; and of human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment of this talk , so i hope d hated it for you .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in single organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is transmitted into both daughter cells .
but at that time , when multi-celled organisms came up , things began to change .
sexual reproduction is in the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes essential .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of death in our bodies is at the same time as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at that time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubt .
i came to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him , there &apos;s a beautifully disguised showgirl .
she looks at him and she says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; george says , &quot; i &apos;ll take the soup . &quot;
i came to the conclusion that i was working in a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore the health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about passing the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival by generation .
and so the visual result is that we &apos;re in general getting better , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i are developed as boster rockets to send the genetic questionnaire to the next stage of the orbit , and then make yourself fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want immortality from my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s the only test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , there are bacteria that are thermophil , and so they survive the hot vapor otherwise , if fish were there , it would have a vacuum of cooked fish , but they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s going on in evolution , and how we think about the place of humans in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to develop .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried to make a major mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason for that would be that , first of all , we were able to get a lot of genes that had otherwise been selected and had been removed from the population .
and second , we as a species have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us and adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re walking and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer tell that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be a evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they are inadequate .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize distant planets as a species , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could naturally produce evolution .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development , which is not just natural , but led and decided by us as individual , in the decisions we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma , which we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be that we could do that ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if not only would it be possible to choose the gender of your child , but also to prepare the body genetic adaptations that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease or eliminate the reduction of the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in clubs to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and into the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long for the reality that there &apos;s going to be the $ 1,000 human genome , and it &apos;s going to be more and more available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encouraged the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead desirable proteins in an efficient way -- which is called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took a grown-up skin cell , a fibroblast , and by manipulating just four genes , the cell induced to bring them back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin produces in bacteria can make viruses that not only protect itself , but can also serve immunity to other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
imagine just two other little changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and egg cells or the fresh fertilized egg to give their children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating the diabetes , reducing the hemophility , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can allow for change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why not have the capability of a ken that &apos;s going to harbor , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why not live longer ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from old style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time in the choice of our greater good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to take 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or your grandchildren , need to deal with .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society of thickness and uniformity , or robust and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
for good or for evil , and sooner than you might think , these decisions are going to be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman ability , or another one that helps wheelchair drivers to stand up and go back .
now , as a fundamental question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a set of questions , the thing to think about is , what makes all this choice possible in the developed world is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they put on in the morning , and that gives them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them hold their balance , for example .
that &apos;s actually the true melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- merging and connecting with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , let &apos;s start talking about the american soldiers , who are , on average , about 100 pounds on their back , and there &apos;s a request that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal cord injuries .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them whose problem is not too big of choice .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , crawl and execute highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then it increases my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re so far , with our industrial partner , to introduce this device , this new exoskeleton in this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people in the world who are estimated in the wheelchair .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injuries that have been struck in their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- by fate , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population that multiplies .
your problem is that you have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brainstorm , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has concluded that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and up until now .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elegs .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached here on her back .
here are also batteries , and the engine is on your hip , just like your knee joints , which you move forward in this very smooth and very natural gangs .
i was 24 years old and in the best form , when a monstrous purple tree paralyzed me as a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he stealing every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me to learn how to ski again , climb and even drive with the hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the life of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and annoying is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how this expensive and hard to install car seats . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i &apos;m not fighting poverty , i &apos;m fighting as the help of a fireman in a volunteer trigger to fire .
now , in our city , where volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be at the brush quite early to be able to mix with you .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the branding site , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to get in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the accountable headquarters and find out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the homeowner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the sleeping train and barefoot under a screen outside in the streaming rain while her house was standing in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of the owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or wealth administrator who could now tell people for the rest of his life that he went to a burning house to save a living creature just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man wave to me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , you &apos;ve got to go by the fire , and this woman &apos;s got to get some shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went up -- the stairs up , down the hallway , down the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who at that time , with the deletion had been pretty much done in the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down , where i met my nemesis and the beloved dog on the front door .
we carried our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fire guard received a letter from the owner of the house where they thanked for the brave use of saving their house .
one about all the measured kindness : somebody had even brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at a large scale , but i also see the charity and the mud of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so if i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer this memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in somebody else &apos;s life until they get to their first million .
if you have something to give , you &apos;re giving it now .
use it in a soup kitchen , dream up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
not every day will give us a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day we have a chance to change one .
so you go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where women lead the ceptor , say hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationships .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the ancient forest of congo .
if something of what enabled our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would people &apos;s lives improve , but our dignity will be improved .
bonobos , together with chimpanzees , are our closest living relatives .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal
while chimpanzees are led by big , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because that leads to an extraordinarily tolerant society where lethal force has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known as primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the demonstration of a violent argument that has been deserving for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree causes you to not even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there , we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent sex , also bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like this , conflict and social angels .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos &apos; life is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play is not just child games .
for us and for them , play is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody do better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is going to give us .
play increases creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about creating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and if you look at bonobos in the game , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us apart .
now , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique footage straight from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and a male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he &apos;s more likely to like it , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and a very sophisticated person says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea wealth of bringing new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game is both challenging and promoting trust -- while it &apos;s also having tremendous fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take a lot of forms , some of which are a little bit quieter , fanciful , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing thing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they do , we sometimes play alone , and we extend the limits of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutrition ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also maintain a secret to our future , a future where we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this gold glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we need to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
even if it &apos;s hardly appropriate , perhaps it &apos;s the most necessary game to play .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s hug and play this gift of evolution together as we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at exactly the same moment , every single baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
so two pairs , each baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because , if you imagine the whole time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing an y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm carries an x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are survival , both light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people deal with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they deal with body fluids , with body concepts , how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought that the fish knew something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve carried in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who challenge social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i worked with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality occurs in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that are not the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosomes is the protogonads that we all have , that we all have , are growing up to the high .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone is in the fetal state of testosterone .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionary with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you have no freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and that &apos;s called androgenic defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it takes most of the time for them to get puberty and their breasts grow and develop , but they don &apos;t get their period until somebody comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian sticks and uterus , they actually carry testicles and they have y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies that &apos;s called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are vibrating hormones .
most women , like me -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually speak on androgens .
we make androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain , that more androgens were exposed than a woman who was born with testicles , and had a androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual is not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , you can be spread across the entire range .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , when he was a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had ovaries and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbladder .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were manipulated male , his brain was the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase paralysis and reduce happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , in fact , of menstruating inside that the doctors found out that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variant of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , where ovotestis is is wrapped up by the ovarian tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- from surgeons often to the norm is not because that would be advantageous to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic exposure is coming in with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is about having a female identity ; being a black person is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , two people in a body .
where i had experienced most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the leichatlethik world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me with the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and intersexual , and intersexual ; we are , in fact , that that line is natural .
this is almost limited with complete security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation where , as our science continues , we have to admit more that these categories that we thought were robust anatomic categories that made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories are much more unthinner than we thought we were .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we got into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re finding the fact that we share at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from just a few nucleotides ?
as we continue to push our science forward , we &apos;re getting more and more into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve had are probably all too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas where we see this as a beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes a human body , so that it has a different right than the fetal life .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass recipe is for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- perhaps not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors had never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they just kept a feather under their nose , and when they moved , they haven &apos;t buried them yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today we are in a situation where we &apos;re taking people who are vital organs and trying to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re capturing the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole thing would collapse from categories to someone like me would really make me happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous .
understanding that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about democracy in terms of thinking about it .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racists , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , i found myself looking at the maltzy music in 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what she refused was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years was essential to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers refused the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they felt that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers proved this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they nivelulated the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities counted , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did that in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew up .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and proven things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth law .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at the declaration of independence , for example , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and so , in a really wonderful way , they prepare the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired to vote , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and an iron stick is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to ownership , etc . &quot;
and women argued successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like soap truth , who are talking about it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , appealing to anatomic commonalities before anatomic differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing in the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start asking , why do we sustain certain divisions ?
well , i want to keep certain divisions , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their consent to sex or to marriage .
so there are some anatomic divisions that make sense of me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try and figure out which one it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been launched at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , three months earlier , was born , so she &apos;s born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani not only killed the outside with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , she acquired all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have conceal sex , the right to choose the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has another biological age , just because of his birth time .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s a male , he can now be drawn into what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can now marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science makes such progress in the anatomy area , that we have to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy might fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time it feels like science is self-sustaining .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimum components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture has a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at one point , decided to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have an y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not being tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgenic defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he &apos;s offering us in his &quot; i have a dream , &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people , not by their skin color , but by the quality of their character , &quot; and he goes beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should give rights to people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social benefits more than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labs dogs who are more capable of making more sophisticated , more intelligent and mature decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the properties of the character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me is , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine-readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it really seems to be important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we did our thing really well , and i think we would do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life out of this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like in iran , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished to death , unless he &apos;s willing to undergo a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist for us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i telephone him , and i asked him why he made these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be very poorly treated , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of an operation to separate them ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are without having to change for the nation &apos;s will .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to notice that i talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities that democracy could look like , or could have looked like , if we had more involvement in the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a radical to a feminist , which is that i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern from different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is a map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we tried to see if we can do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not everyone , but on average -- tend to give a lot of complex social relations and care to people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i went to graduate school , one of my graduate students asked me who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do it -- a really curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about clicking gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is , there could be something , on average , which makes female brains different from male brains , which makes us more aware of very complex social relations , and more aware of the need for the protective .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely consistent to find out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept of not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe that &apos;s where we need to go in the future , if we take democracy over anatomy -- less to think about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we &apos;re a people trying to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love being able to find a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also wearing and blogging recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of the second hand on flee markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment and also my money exchange .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes a shopping for my very personal searching .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i &apos;ve been packing for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what does somebody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way to go forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components , and therefore ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
the underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i would bet that i would find everything else i might want to wear once i came to palm springs .
and since you didn &apos;t hear about me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found some things .
and i want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started asking the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself , and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to create these really big molecules , which has never been made before ?
sometimes people tell me that i look like i &apos;m playing games , or that i remember their seven-year-olds .
i like smiling and saying , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost certainly like that .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re a wonderful person inside and outside , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody in this audience .
they were drilling each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes match everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a own unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when this week people came up to me , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , this is not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to have these things emotionally arrested , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s just waiting for me to love a little bit in the heart and find it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of infected chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying image point .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this image in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because something very interesting happened in the formula 1 in the past decade .
so a while ago , if you wanted to win a formula race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this one -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , which give the information from the car , that information to the system , and then process it and then use it to send back that car and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this would be what you , in engineering teams , would call a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made up of two parts -- a feeling part and a reacting arrow .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities have been , in the last few years , equipped with networks and electronics .
they become outdoor computers .
and as an outdoor computer , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the earth &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but still increased , and our last point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all this sense of perceivation and push into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that organizes paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a certain sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and that changes radically the interaction that we have people with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , it means that at the end he took the hammer and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little place underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment is starting to respond to us for the first time .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with perceiving .
now the first project i want to introduce to you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we were doing was actually using a new kind of network that was used around the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network , which are collected from the operator , anyway , to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember it was playing italy against france , and then at the end of the cidane , the head shock .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle , the colosseum , the tide .
in the morning before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the great impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place around co massimo , where , since the roman time , people have gone to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
just quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , but it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we don &apos;t know that much about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who , a little over a year ago , helped us tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we pasted the little chips , the little brands , on the garbage , and we started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is , we believe that every day , when we see the cup that we throw away , it doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we showed that to people , then we can make a behavioral change happen .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about what &apos;s going on , and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it began with a mayor &apos;s question that came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was to imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they do something like a water curtain with points of water .
when these images fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to let it jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor to a hole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building in the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and leave it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the injection , you can even let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , that day , if you go down the roof , you get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
this is how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me , as i tried to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
well , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night it was even more fun .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we &apos;re always thinking about how the people who use things that we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start flying .
imagine if you could have little helicopters that fly through the air , and each one of them with a little image of changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of chemical and put it into a bacteria , and the bacteria began to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display like this -- an equal formation in two dimensions .
or irregular but in three dimensions , where what changes is the light is not the position of the imagery .
they can play with different species .
imagine if the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and move through , that you can see from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller that &apos;s coming down to form the same v as before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so just like we saw it before .
imagine that every single one of people is being controlled .
it could have a pulse from every single image that comes from people , from the movements of people or something like that .
i want to show you something first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a movement shot .
so that you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then , once we have all the imagery points , you can play with it and play with color gravity and motion .
that &apos;s what we want to use as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said that they could understand this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that again , we &apos;re bringing people in to do something and changing the environment -- almost as we call it , to build a cloud movement , how to move a scheme , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened over the last few years is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to address the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we then move from the digital world to the physical ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
again , the cloud is a cloud of images , in the same way that a cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but it &apos;s covered with images .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light bulb at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for everyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about the connection .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that humans are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
for the first time , i was in antarctica almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was honored .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to figure out what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me raced almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice customs .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they are clearly interacting with their surroundings and their experiences .
some refuse to give up and clam to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we often see people .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome . it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , and so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in tapes the size of the virus , which we could vary the size of the tape to understand what the components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
while an iceberg melts , i breathe its prior atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i think of my footage of these icebergs as if i make portraits of my ancestors , in the consciousness that they exist in these individual moments , and they will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , but it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information has to be really flawed .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the waterline .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it races about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that .
tempt today is completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that makes design and animations , and graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided , tony -- tempt -- and to support his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back and found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people a little bit about it , they admitted that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear anyway .
we found 30 mistakes in the resource . if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate through these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , just if you belong to the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diver bell &quot; ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how they walk along their fingers .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead , i made a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to fix it .
i was committed to his brother and father , in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all of this can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys at grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface that they want , and then draw a laser pointer on it that only registers the negative surface .
so they move around and they do art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the gender parts , then the vaccine words , then the bush-publishing , and finally people do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and i ate with my wife at night and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , then we should find a way to control a laser , so that he can make graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we did some things .
first , we insurance the doors , and we actually got a device for speed that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you &apos;re like , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
also , we &apos;ve flown seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i went to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back , and all the images on the walls would be graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach map in venice , my kids were brought in , my dog was also , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we have embedded watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the beach map of venice , a little bit of copper wire and a few things from the farmers &apos; market and electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of constraints .
no insurance can squeeze .
no hospital .
any paralyzed one can actually communicate or draw with his eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to speed &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rumble in front of the great unveiling .
and after more than a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and crawled nights , tony drew , for the first time , after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he &apos;s looking beyond his life support system .
we made his bed so he could look out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew , again , for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
now , funny enough , we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was crushed underwater , and finally somebody attacked down and pulled my head up so i could breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our cry of fight .
that keeps us going and continuing to evolve .
and we need a lot to improve on this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s coming up with a magic board .
and somebody who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been getting all sorts of recognition .
we &apos;ve won some awards .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve to do it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us , and then in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this is -- and this includes the whole circle -- is that there will be an exhibition in april , the meeting moca in downtown los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there may be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
it will be tempted to be part of the show , which is pretty abandoned .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , it makes it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with augeneric technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should be , each of you , every single day , when you get something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
initially , we signed up .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most commonly paralyzed children &apos;s book .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to go like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever voted for farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle began in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom bag .
i was the one who was beaten up green and blue every week in the virgin toilet , until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to work with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman posting , saying , &quot; i &apos;ve got to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you come to ohio , please , and please come together with the man i know you &apos;ve found him in the meantime .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes . there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to please hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at them , we laughed , we cried , and we knew they had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we brought them , and we took care of them , and we put them on their family eight , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , that part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , added them to each other to make 24,000-letter pieces to reassemble them up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you get up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the flight companions .
so i looked at her in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , i guess we got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we made these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot did the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s usually not the route .
he turns off the engines .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most dedicated words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready to jump up . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the border staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was horror , life was over .
i want to share with you three things that i learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
as i later thought about it , i came up with a saying , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to make a difference in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was , when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around the size of hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to become better at everything i attacked .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , to people .
and after that , when i thought about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i was no longer arguing with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and while the internal clock is starting , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; is down .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break down into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re crashing , i had this feeling of dying man is not terrifying .
almost like we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in one thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i went to see a show of my daughter -- first graders , not much artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologist recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can put those pieces together .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots together , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing is happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it , and how would you change ?
what would you do that you push up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which survives three million wheels of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple in itself .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control the numbers and valves , then we can actually create a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can do it , there &apos;s an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warehouse engineer to configure that gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- assignment .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , made use of countless zero-day- weak places .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all folded up again as it was .
that didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this was a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got me interested , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , for example , an u.s. power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon find out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s structured into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the use data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks like the old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-functioning calls , because we know what they do .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what animal species belonged to .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for tickets and data structures , and we tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could take or disprove .
to make these theories , let &apos;s remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-grade sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and very likely it &apos;s in iran , because most infections have been reported .
well , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
basically , it &apos;s going out into the bay department of nuclear power and the uranium incentive plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; get me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead with the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even let the centrifuge explode .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to make it happen slowly and uncanny -- obviously trying to make waiting engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the great digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking very closely at data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature , about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attack ?
it &apos;s a almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa showed that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that really matched up .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were looking at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , that didn &apos;t just work .
these results have been achieved through several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead alley , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and it turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefu mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them . yeast automatically added them together .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- it really blew me out of socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the intrinsic values of sensors -- like printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet has been recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the tracking hunt , the monitoring camera is being fed with video footage before .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and more aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope ; it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power plant , for example , when the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up depositations valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and not the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so he would work just as well for example -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as possible .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for those attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is footage over a six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we need to confront the consequences , and we better start preparing ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , it was reported a lot that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion too ?
okay , you really want to know ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is cyber superpower .
this is the publication we just finished recently .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , luckily .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time somehow dangerous .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking for terrible situations , and just trying to study social belonging in a way that they &apos;re engaging and interesting , and hopefully understanding what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
some of you may have heard that i did an ad on ebay a few weeks ago .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it back -- buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now , which didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and not a lot of evidence of what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could ever fly around your ears after content , especially if i left your company for your participation dumb .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew somebody was going to buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you that with certainty .
it has over 300 million molecular weight .
but in the new project that i work on , my new film , we study the world of marketing , the advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could get me prepared , nothing could get me in touch with anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys could get into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film is going to be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the final movie ever sold &quot; is that everything , from the top to the bottom , is completely packed with brands -- from the cover sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the stadium center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early 80s , i got a really amazing job when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalians and clay macoutes , and the poison that was used to make zombies safer .
if we were to print it out with a 10-by-sized novelist , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more for emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell any category we can in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a &quot; the greatest movie ever sold &quot; attention .
so the idea is , apart from showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to finance the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how recipient people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but do you know how it &apos;s going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s going to be hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde of volliots .
what do you think the answer is going to be ?
the answer is going to be extremely likely to be no .
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do about the movie or a difficult thing about me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to deal with ...
it &apos;s as simple as you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take out the nucleus and you put another in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; if you put the camera out , &quot; it would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to do anything with your film . &quot;
and just so all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people as possible see it .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new , exciting mediation tool that makes the masses this message .
in archaea bacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , if you put transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your way , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- freely of deception and bags , just discovering and looking through ; instantly understandable ; characterizing from visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species , roughly , they &apos;re both as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome , and we shattered it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;ll appreciate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it gets to the point where it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that &apos;s still breeding .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and she &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip eat .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , one agency , was ready to help us -- and also just because i know john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it myself , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies say that the reason their movies are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that was the end here , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
whenever i go on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion , &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we will be both equipped for men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short cut .
now , i can answer all of your questions and give them an exceptional census .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
super-legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that somebody is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of somewhere , thousands of characteristics in just one second to one species .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; battle smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing stype ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who &apos;s like me , otto-normal consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief in the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s revival hits skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory soire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , reliable fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girl -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schmuseum animals all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was outliers .
marke 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted scripts .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we added .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-token , but i often see myself at the intersection of dark glamour and reliable fly .
and what i noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could invade my head , somebody who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , featuring , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their images , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how that &apos;s connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all these things come and start from a place , and for me they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was colored blue because of the genes that we added .
what is the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosen did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be a fear . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of that .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and converted completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality has two separate , but supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock-brand is an eight-legged brand .
they &apos;re very good at complimenting .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with it .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than both .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- avoid things that they &apos;re not sure about , they &apos;re going to be afraid of avoiding these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and this is a skilled chess .
what other brands are going on ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
now , there are playful brands and mindful brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eightful , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
you up-attribute them ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are you more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative , conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , time-wise , adventurous , out-of-the-box , and love , like erol flynn , agile , professional , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you mindful and mondaches like 007 ?
are you established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , secure , born , sacred , sacred , thoughtful , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies up and down companies saying no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it was going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to give up on this control , who wanted to do business with somebody as remarkable and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t have normally been able to tell -- stories that a commercial would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film today , that you use mris to piss the functions of the brain , both to make advertising and movies .
we went to sao paulo , where external advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there has not been a timeline , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we went to school districts where companies are trading their way to impoverished schools , across america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i got the greatest success , are the ones where i directly interacted with things .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said , maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
well , since the film at the sundance film premiere , we can look at this .
according to burrale , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this actually includes just a two-thirds of a week period .
this is just online -- no press , no tv .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of cambrian explosion in which there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their customers to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your chance , you take your risk , you take the risks that are in these risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you prepare the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that we need to encourage people to take risks in the first place .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that might scare them .
finally , in the progression , we should welcome the fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical world view .
why should we do that ?
each one is a big spoon full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
nowadays , more than ever , a little bit of honesty brings us a lot .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; they welcome transparency , &quot; was presented to you by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the namebay rights .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the level of 7100 to fund my ted performance in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i talked about making something with museums and art , and my boss , who is here today , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , at 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very easy to explain with this slide and access to it .
i grew up in india .
i got a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
so when i went and went to these museums , i started to learn a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- to bring technology together .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to googleartproject.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , moma , the hermitage , the rijk , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite ones , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wum , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t make any difference .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you &apos;re amused .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just keep going . lots of fun .
puffs them .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
if the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
so this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click this away now .
this is one of the images we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapix technology .
for example , this picture has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
so here &apos;s what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i realized , slowly , that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , i spoke to some familiar people at the met , and actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans was beaten with a stick on the facial tuesday .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that to nine .
the best part is still -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding details .
but what if you want to see the brushes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen like that before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million drums a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , everybody -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can put your own collection .
it &apos;s very simple , you go in -- and i created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is the donation , in the nationalism .
you can miss everything with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come out of the museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;ll be talking to this digital medium of art and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 that &apos;s going to land in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , that would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extreme , but i think for most people in the audience , their brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good proportion of intuition to actually do experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love playing with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in a place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is in two different places at the same time , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor threshold .
he was another little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was always falling .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you by , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they &apos;re not playing with the ground threshold , but they &apos;re playing with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you fly directly through walls , or that you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the quantum mechanics theory .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; you needed quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow all the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why that shouldn &apos;t be like that .
and we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so i would feel strongly better about the whole thing if somehow we could show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re looking right at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these rapid synthesizing techniques to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal it &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon-slice , and i racked all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool of hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m in the elevator alone , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i listen to all these things , because i don &apos;t want to bother them , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that unmoving objects feel the same way .
the fellow drivers for unmoving objects are not just people , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that passes by them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal acts in a quantum mechanical way , we had to kick all the travelers out .
and then we did that .
we turned off the lights , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , all alone in the elevator , was the piece of metal was free to behave as it always wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange to move .
instead of it just lying there , it was vibrating , the way it was vibrating , sort of like this -- like a stretching and pulling bubble balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is something really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate and not vibrate an object at the same time ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that make up the piece of metal are silent , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just at precise points of time , they agree .
they &apos;re dolphin for the rest of the time .
that means that every atom is in two different places at the same time , which at the same time means that the entire piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing me in the clean space for all this year , because , you know , check this out , the scale difference between a single atom and that piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in multiple places at the same time , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just a mere selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production , and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with your body being delocalized in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect to history .
when we warmed it up , the light turned on and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small room .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it . it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on that you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that when families think about where they live and work , they have the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new people .
at the moment , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in developing countries who don &apos;t even have a single city available that would welcome them .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could use the world very easily with ducking , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , if you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just swap the building apartments for the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments are already doing this ; half of them don &apos;t .
you could try to expand the capacity of the apartments that already exist .
but you know what they would be relying on , in these apartments and their surroundings , there are laws to avoid and to deflect from degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get out all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block , if the laws there would support a building like this and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new surfaces that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
i later found out that , about the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans could leave their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what if we take an undefeated area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- part of the american embassy , part of the canadian bottleneck , and then if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can they do anything on the surface of these messages , what do they usually have to go to canada or america for ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered a severe comprehension crisis .
in the next planning elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovations and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his head of steam .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation fuels .
through improvement , trial and through the study of consumers , i tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t have existing housing owners .
we give new technologies great attention , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend of guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and said , &quot; let &apos;s present that to the head of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december at the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show you how valuable rohland is in a place like new york city , and remember that in some cases a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us all to sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn on ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk represented in a very simple form that a charter city is a place whose beginning of uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and that gives people the opportunity to either live under those rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we need to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring forward our country .
i was asked to come back to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and the fifth of january .
so i gave another one with facts full of this talk , which included a graph like this that tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have the second and third generation fuels that will come out relatively soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core statement that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would be dependent on the help of partnerships , they could benefit from their partners , who they would support in providing the laws for this charter and the implementation that everybody could trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the insight of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i thought about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equally significant to all the parties in honduras that have been in fear and mistrust for many years .
we went into an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology will have a huge impact without further increases in the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as an output material , and therefore we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s a millennia of square miles .
and shortly after , on january 19th , they voted in congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional regime that is reliable for specific development areas .
in a country that has just been in a severe crisis , in congress , was elected for this change in constitution with 124 to a voice .
all parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved to a voice for the second time with 114 .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city hall .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new urban center built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think that we &apos;re going to be the first with fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years , after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in building cities is singapore .
it &apos;s already built two cities in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
you already have a building site , and you already consider this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
also urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one of the things , as you know , has already been explained , is there are lots of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a way .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
there are 700 million people around the world who say they want to live in a different place , permanently .
one million people leave latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to find work -- sometimes they are single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents , who , in some cases , have never seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building stupid cities , or hundreds of them all over the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition for new people ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all kinds of different ways .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i recently made a poll with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which is , according to a typical american on a day , is 70 .
also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they were watching the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that this ceo is dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made within nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at making the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-making problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and vinegar and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk water .
i loved to go to this business , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those that were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years of old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the filibuster , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work for people to really provide all of these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marginal gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane using hydrogen as an energy source .
we set up a little recovery ceiling right at the entrance of the store .
we put six different flavors of marmelade there , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : one , i would stay with more people and try marmelade ?
there were more people left when they were 24 , about 60 percent , than when they were six , about 40 percent .
and then we looked at the case that people were more likely to buy a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stayed when they were 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who stayed when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you do the math , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who you had six choices than if you had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision overlap problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our best interests .
we can study whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production sites , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of subscribers that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the chance of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that would offer people something between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered that , indeed , the participation was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that were offering two fonds , there was a partial rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that nearly 60 fonds offered , the submersible rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , if you have more choices to choose , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate , rather than the fact that the more options they have available , the more they rent it to actia and fund .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of life &apos;s fundamental questions .
the more opportunities they had , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that any of people would recommend if our future financial well-being is important .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re pushing up , even if it &apos;s against their own best interest .
they make more poorer decisions -- worse financial decisions and worse medical decisions .
they tend to choose more for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that we might enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essional and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparison and the limitations , and then we can actually choose something out of the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different kinds of research sites -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than it is now that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate targets like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right , if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? becoming a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing rectangle space .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re ready to narrow , and you get rid of the unimportant opportunities , well , there &apos;s a rise in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; em &amp; gt ; &amp; lt ; / em &amp; gt ; , and there &apos;s an improvement in decision perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst sales of cats , they experienced that the profits went up 87 percent -- a result of both the increase in sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today is aldi , and they only offer you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that recently came to the market , about how to best manage choice , was something that david laibson has very strongly joined , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s being offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff now automatically takes part in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice will be offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the question is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities differ from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t . &quot;
well , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the road .
and i want to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask them to clap if they &apos;re willing to adopt gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always on the back a year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
okay , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
in fact , if you look at it objectively , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess you felt it more real the second time .
because the images made it more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making , it &apos;s the concretation .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between the possibilities , understanding what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences need to be vividly and concrete .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more on an ecc map or a credit card than they spend on cash ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel real money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement savings plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it always was , we just added a small thing .
the little thing that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in doing this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or an increase by four percent in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the tree of evolution with synthetic bacteria , archaeas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine walk .
it turns out it &apos;s got supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , the number between 331 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i gave them more choice and a better choice than i would have given them the 400 , if i gave them the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry plants .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think that the left display is swing , and the display on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think that &apos;s jazz on the left and that &apos;s on the right side of swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the selector something , not the one who provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you actually want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just need to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave a introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they provide per decision .
car color , the outside of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from the many ways , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back and tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice in the decision all the time , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing you .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low possible dough over and over again choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little bit of choice to the many , and then stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses , nothing about my preferences in the interior state says , it still prepare me to choose .
so this is it . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated with interest in this .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision overlap -- limited -- will you unlock the excess alternatives ; concrete -- do it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- well , for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in the choice .
and the more we are selective , the better we will be able to do the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager on youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video becomes viral , and then why it &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , and of course there was one and voodoo is just the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came through during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the beginning of the universe -- up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- famous ones , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become hugely famous in one part of our world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet until next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video per minute is uploaded .
again , only one tiny percentage ever gets viral and is looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , submersibles and unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhhh , wowww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house at the yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it was looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you call yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet that ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and shows a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos; friday is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or a group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared with a big audience , and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insider joke , and they started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies from friday on youtube .
already in the first seven days there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the engaging conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
i &apos;m working on this . he &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 50 million times this year .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of techies and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we &apos;re going to go with it .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what are the scripts that you could have written in that kind of thing ?
in a world where every minute two days video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can emerge as the videos i mentioned .
i admit i was not particularly interested when a friend told me to watch this great video , about a guy protesting a ticket in new york for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t drive on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t keep you on the bike path .
because that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at funny idea and his argument five million times .
this approach applies to everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
and all of this leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and where the audience determines popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- made his start with youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re not even approaching the media today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind when the communicator is in saigon , as he must say , that his life was a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now joking his .
he moved back into silence .
he died , broken through history .
it caused immense juice in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat in the early morning red quiet comes out at sea .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
she had challenged her life : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was totally excluded that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film mature saga glitt , a boat still on the lake , camped as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put the entire distance back to the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to allow a rain of particles to bounce on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear was , they were scared of pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little toxic bottle .
when i took a prisoner , my sister and i would have drowned them , and then they would have drank my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bow , the length and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the extinction of the engine that six hours didn &apos;t want to start .
but i remember the lights of the oil plate off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like this again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who are together building a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10th , we knew that the machine worked , which is a big triumph .
we settled down in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike in the ancient middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication thinking in footscray .
the scaffolding out of the trucks came from the rest of the world .
and the fetuses of english were broken between people who had one thing in common : they started again .
my mother was working on farms , then a assembly line in a car factory , six days , twice layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was admitted and was put in further education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to get away with , and most of the time , the new things that always came out of the second hand .
two strands for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the angles , because it had to be six years old .
i don &apos;t know if this made the biggest juice , or this was when somebody went to the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; snippets , &quot; and here and there are paintings : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
where do you go home ?
something went up inside me .
there was a meeting to reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat from nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came , so i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then she made a cosmetic education , and then she opened another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and unflexible , and cared kids , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who provided indiscriminate demands to himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe lives , wearing tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of the puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous footscray resident , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who was invited to speak to places she had never heard of , and in homes where she could never have imagined her .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters , who graduated every single day as they have for 20 years , telling and sleeping with each other the stories of their day , we still three in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we were climbing the boat .
no had never been a chance .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about adolescence and education , and the neglect of marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampters when the machine is running on high-performance .
i met people in all the lives , so many of them did what they loved , lived at the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t take a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , a new image -- and not just okay , but something to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging so easily can lead to the collapse of the horizon can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is interrupting , but not the way you fear it .
opportunities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and courage .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the label &quot; is not &quot; a disgusting challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you &apos;re not . these are little wires . &quot;
we didn &apos;t have a cent for a year .
at the end of every day , i was cooking a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked till late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the u.s .
after just a trip there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i had moved around , and the adventure went on .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the most important social norm and local mandarin .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after she was born .
her mother was raising her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without the support of her husband , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to court and being a jurisdiction in her own case , and a wider sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turned out to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so , at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their coffin .
we told her stories and told her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the coffin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them since this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let it go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
you see who we were , and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives might have come to our way .
the defeat would have been too easy .
in one of the connections between nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory defect .
now i &apos;d like my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever wish ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of contemplation .
can i give you a bug in your life that is bold to defy every wave , the unbiased , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and get it safe , i would do it .
also , tans &apos;s mother is here in the fourth or fifth row today .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
so the wires heat down , and 13-thousand ampters suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
but nevertheless , my interest in photography , when i received my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because , using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is crushed .
photos like this : a building site along a much riding road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and it still lasts a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones give birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have , in a photograph .
photos where you have to think for a moment to find out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , this is even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a particular way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that it &apos;s not possible .
so we &apos;re missing our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but you can combine something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two images meet these two demands -- shot from the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove them , which we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , matching the individual images , adding photographic lack , like field depth , depleted colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photo , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into a compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in winter , i knew it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on an anglerial trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconditioned them , repaired them .
and yes , i even blew the house on the top of the island red to make it look swedish .
to achieve a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to go beyond planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good images , the result can be pretty , and it can also be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that &apos;s going to limit us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
you &apos;re all back on your way back .
and one of the things that we introduced at the orbital university was to make a major listener .
she doesn &apos;t do that very scientifically -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea , and she asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe only most of the electronic health projects fail : because we stopped listening .
this is my wireless scale . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilos .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it &apos;s also sending my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
and there , they &apos;re also called off from my general doctor , so he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment that i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump on my wireless scale , and people are talking to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salt today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the force of the group to help the patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to smoke the patient .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play together in some way to control their health better .
next week , this is the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for a little more than 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , not only can they take control , be captain on their own ship , but can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect the first data in june or july , and we &apos;re going to continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make ways that are easy to use , and start to hug patients in the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know one more thing where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we were asking around , and no one knew .
now , of course , in a way , these accidents again , the debate about the value of science and engineering on these boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
nobody knew where the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so , what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website , and we asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where it is , when it &apos;s up , &quot; because sometimes it &apos;s closed during business times , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds were already signed in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and somebody collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next weeks , your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and somebody collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relative , or somebody else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these might be makeshift services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the aed reported is still in its place .
please help us and try not just to improve health , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report on unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to conserve ourselves by ...
... pay attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be conspired by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to exaggerate the soul of the living temporary , so that the acolyth becomes a short shiny moment to the god .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i suspect , when he defended the useless experiments of his apprentice , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind as to assume that our scientific ideas are finally valid , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumphs are full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a quick video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it may take time for it to be charged .
now -- we can just jump this over -- i &apos;ll just jump over the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is pretty much everything that they actually hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called code for america , and it &apos;s a little bit like the peace scorps for computer freaks .
we select some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to rathugs .
and they developed great apps , working with urban employees .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so you meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he really is he &apos;s looking for is somebody who &apos;s releasing him when he &apos;s gone in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire control when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , and we had the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open up these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik ) els-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were shrinking the sidewalks right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to smile it freely when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago just introduced them so that people would sneak up the burial sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my big , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread frictionless , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
it &apos;s usually a few years of software acquisition .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method that parents can find out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it went over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california justice right now that the taxpayer has cost two billion dollars to date , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this on every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a couple of days , and then it spreads from rarity is kind of a shot in front of the bug to the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- not more like a private company , how many people think it should be .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the government &apos;s problem -- not as the problem of a sale institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just code for america , it &apos;s fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , something very strange has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost out of our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we can &apos;t do together . &quot;
today , a lot of people gave up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you think about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts their power -- remember , &quot; we people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought that the government was all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about community rats , about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this peculiar event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called a pray , pray , love -- which , unlike all my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a marsupial rat in your house .
so scott gets this anfruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is swinging off ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacine .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i was refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; marsupial rat in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from man to person .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everyone can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next post that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
marsupial ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously , the demise is refused .
turned the garbage bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine rat . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into the crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of the government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government was a central role here .
she connected these two people .
and the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white go to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very worried about me and you say , &quot; don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have combined them with government services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to national services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they believe that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is to choose .
how many times did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , our values , to reflect and to fulfill our needs , and then we didn &apos;t change much ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a farther ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to continue your whole life and never recreate a book that anyone in the world cares ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machinery of the government .
so the occupation movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the financial reform bill .
that &apos;s not being politically active , that &apos;s bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world we want to leave our children .
okay , that &apos;s really what makes you courage .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we need to achieve what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our field is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing her voice for granted .
they don &apos;t fight this fight that we all fight , which is who can talk ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so , when you &apos;re faced with the government problem , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told , as a teenager , that i wanted to be a writer , i was faced with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to open up a hydrant , to harbor a trash , to turn a thylacine with a thylacine .
and sure we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of the government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to succeed ? &quot;
usually my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can barely keep up with .
i &apos;m going to start showing you a little bit of a single , boring slide .
... you could just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
it &apos;s not about the details of the slide , but rather , the general shape .
this slide shows us data from one of us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is kind of like a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a power in the scale of performance .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a testimony is going to kill you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn the lights back on .
another little bit more light , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a species , and this is any measure of technology that i want to show you with a graph , the graph becomes silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , say , a transportation technology , that would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if the transportation technology was going up as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi overtomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re going to follow this craftsmanship and you &apos;re never going to get out of it , and you &apos;re going to die on a scraped dream -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it doesn &apos;t go so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale goes up exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two choices .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new gets there , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of it .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
something like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is beginning to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , somewhere in the year 2000 , the future was often talking about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
more than that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , the future has declined by a year since i was in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that something is going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future right now , because everything is going to be so different that a simple mapping of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , yes .
now i want to talk about what this could be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we need to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the timeline of earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did that .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story about this , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was swinging around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet had a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t about living in today &apos;s sense , because each one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread at an unequal amount .
so every droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of more optimal composition faster than others , and more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so these are the tendencies to survive longer , and they multiplied at a greater scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interestingly , when these droplet drops learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
what &apos;s amazing about this is that this kind of information , over the course of 2.5 billion years that it was born , stayed the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , the exact same code and the same type of writing .
and that is , every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that we can only write things in this code for pleasure .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms here of a white pulse that i &apos;m trying to keep in airports away from security staff .
and there &apos;s -- what i did is , i took this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i reinforced it 10 to 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for anyone in this room and even for anyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i were actually an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the subscription of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m much more afraid of things that no one would know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , and that was , these cells started communicating and sharing information , so that communities of cells emerged .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the continuity of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin , and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synertic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , and that meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were more repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-celled communities , communities of many different types of cells , which function together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells , and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level on which evolution took place was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step has now happened within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but to process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning and understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;m like , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the span of the lifespan of a single organism , rather than through that evolutionary period of time .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process using these particular information structures , because evolution has now been able to happen within an individual .
it could be within a time-frame of learning .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most sophisticated version of this communication is the human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head here .
i &apos;m sitting here giving basically grunting sounds from me , hoping to create a similarly confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we make something very complicated in other people &apos;s heads .
so this now allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we began to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multicell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods to capture data .
the invention of language , for example , was a little step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video obstacles , cd-roms , and so on , are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects all of us together into something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the span of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid of doing the work that they feel like they &apos;re doing ?
you also saw ty &apos;s little evolutionary example where he showed a little evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve faded the timeline again .
the first steps of the story i told you , took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to be a few decades .
the process feeds itself , and it becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for that -- if something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative corporations that they make us uncertain about each other &apos;s state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the advances of the computer .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is , we think at a certain level of abstraction , they give the machine over , and the machine does something that goes way beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and she does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand yet .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we install an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that emerges from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these randomly elected instructions , run all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that i give them the next . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say , i want to sort numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve used for .
so , find programs that are most likely to sort the numbers .
of course , the chance of randomly elected instructions is very small , that by accident , they &apos;re just going to type numbers , so i don &apos;t think any of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them , with a little bit of luck , may put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my spending .
store them off , delete the rest .
now , all the remains that the numbers have best sorted .
it &apos;s with a method of recombining , analog for reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how are you going to do it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the premises than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
rate them again .
maybe lead some mutations .
and try it again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can run a evolution over millions of years in the computer within a few minutes , or more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just wasn &apos;t , you know ?
so if i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job , because you come out of a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and said , &quot; oh look at this . look at this .
it says , &apos; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little pieces that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; don &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we start to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from the classic engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken on by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists have not received the reputation of alcohol people over the centuries .
it allows us to do things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a way , technology is overwhelming us .
now we &apos;re using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because these new technologies today are feeding themselves .
we &apos;ll take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where analog is at the time , as a single cell organisms , evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creatives of all genres , seem to have this call to be mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very , very tedious to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
well , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;ll stop here now before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singers mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at that time , we would jump into a car and swirl across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , who died young and often from your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince had thirst arjuna , he took a bow , shot in the floor and water came out .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it scared me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i thought that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicid seem to have been really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the technology world to see how i could use it to make magic rather than killing .
at the age of 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that can connect readers all over the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
the storytelling uses more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
again and again , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magic and kites , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and get the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book and every world becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to take here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these cards were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we &apos;re not even listening to somebody like this , because we &apos;ve known these kinds of statements for so long . somehow we &apos;ve accepted the idea that creativity and suffering somehow belong , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard about fees and nymps , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras for thousands of years in an old book .
and we bring them back , in a contemporary history for children .
it &apos;s a story that engages with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
on the environmental crisis , one big problem for the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re going to send out a search . you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and mussels .
somehow the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter and tag it .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photos that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows a picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i saw a food today . &quot;
a kid in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you actually took .
there &apos;s a variety of ways that magic can connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and you can see through augmented reality an animation of 11 that appears on a plant outside the house .
at one point , the screen fills with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where technology &apos;s natural forces can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with just one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that idea at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the social weakest in the social settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have a global impact here .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and power that it doesn &apos;t otherwise have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good things , but as a doctor , you can do more .
and that &apos;s why i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became large in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a touch , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trancestate that includes glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body so that it holds when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them take over to the next century .
she was also the starting point of many arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born as slaves in virginia in the 1840s .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard i could hardly breathe . then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again . if i said &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was something that did that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creatives to live .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running all around .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine that i woke up one morning and went into the living room . all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
at first , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
it went like 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me over , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan , you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that , for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start this dark path of conjecture , sort of -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget .
she took me out , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat down and looked at me , and she said , &quot; i want you to know i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re something special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandmother . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , let me tell you that you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always care about her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; well , the next thing i &apos;m going to do is you &apos;re going to always do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , and i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack of beer with snatch , my sister and i and went to the forest with us .
we were only silly around in the same way that we were doing .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she assumed , and then she offered one to me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . we do it today , you do whatever we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on ? well , drink something . &quot;
then he looked at me in the face and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still crazy about the conversation with oma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is being reviewed by the world as the work that came after my last book &apos;s failed success , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all her grandchildren are something special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol infected diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different than 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in prison .
today it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are left on currency or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population are despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned or conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either abandoned in prison , on promotion , or on conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with race , but it &apos;s also being deployed by poverty .
we have a legal system in this country that they treat much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be very happy with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at nine o &apos;clock in the morning . and i don &apos;t want to .
my home of alabama constantly deprives you the right to vote when they &apos;re convicted of conviction .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male population has permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honesty rights will be as high as it was before the presence of the election law .
silence is numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , for children , there are lifelong sentences without a conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i put people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think , because we &apos;re so taught that the real question is this : did a human being deserve to die for a crime of him ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not , did anyone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we executed , one that we found innocent for innocent , which was discharged and discharged from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i met , the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia were the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anybody fly on an airplane if , for nine planes that would pick up , take one down .
but somehow we get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i talk a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i &apos;m teaching african-american story to my students . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming up to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks to people to stop saying we have to do it for the first time in the history of our nation with terrorism : post-9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people we grew up with this . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the race race and decades of racially-motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to preserve a safe distance between me and my very natural climbing about how the reaction will be to the written .
and so we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
we &apos;re hard to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the truth and reconciliation process .
in south africa , people have understood that racing is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear them speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , there can never be any more . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models for this last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking in the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more sensible ideas about how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we will ever speak to ourselves for the systematic killing of people .
it would be unconscious of us to consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unfortunate .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the south , we &apos;re setting people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of being convicted of death , 11 times higher if the victim is white than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , if the deployed black is and the victim is white -- in the same states where the earth is in the body of yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest led me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but eventually , these realities are overlapped by suffering , abuse , displacement , limitation .
it seems to me that it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to pass in a complex world .
for me , it means time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe , in the end , things that we can &apos;t see .
we do that . as rational as we are , we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by believing in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-to-heart connection , which i think drives us to not just be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said this .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities also have to engage in it .
there is no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be completely human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
she &apos;s going to touch them deeply .
as a young lawyer , i have the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , okay ?
woman parks came back again and again to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white man whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women just met and they were just talking .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , woman parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , i love it . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
i sat there one day , and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the same initiative is right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine divine divinity that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are you trying to do ? &quot;
i started my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to abolish lifelong sentences without a parole for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of inmates .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine divinity spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and therefore you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be brackets .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a few very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
it &apos;s known by socrates that he believed he had a demonstration that told him wisdom from a distance .
if somebody takes something they don &apos;t belong to , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill somebody , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that is , there is a fundamental human dignity that needs to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so stimulating , at the end of the day , we &apos;re not measured on our technology , not on the things that we &apos;re developing , not on our intellect and mind .
finally , a society is measured not by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the judgment , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re only beginning to understand the really amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose the balance . a story at the end .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result , this people moved into an isolated volcanic massively retreating over the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body losem of creative mind a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i &apos;m getting tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who is supposed to be in court as an adult .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn somebody into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
i stayed up one night for too long , and i thought , my goodness , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he has to have magic .
right , bryan , the judge has magic .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this brief . the headline said , &quot; contract to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my brief , i explained that misbehavior of the prosecution and the police and the procedure failures were considerable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country , that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up , and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed this crazy contract or actually wrote it .
and to my defeat , i had written him not only , but also sent him to the court .
a few months went by , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to live in the walls of an artist -- sort of like the dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and the artist at work , was somehow assistant and designing the outcome of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i was going up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me in the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
that &apos;s brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- that psychological constructs you , that protect you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deep inside me , identity , the ability of every single person to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i went to the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you get this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office workers .
in the globe , the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , talked about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my perspective , i looked up and down at the janitors .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial appearance in the courthouse and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , which bothered that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran across to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i came here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal out of the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going to expand far , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that we as humans are not completely developed until we care about human rights and basic values .
that our survival is linked to the survival of every single one .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i just want to say , those of you who see this , just say , don &apos;t lose your goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen this audience , this community , an obvious desire , and you &apos;ve heard how to help them and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a census in this spring about actually doing a job of doing something about the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all fatalities don &apos;t end with arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t look at everything for you , everybody knew you had this inbodless genius that helped you .
56 percent of rape cases are not in court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference is going to suggest that we &apos;re going to invest money in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context of the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been ripping away from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that keep people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of a little bit of good , instead of forcing them to return the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little laugh .
in somalia , famine . doctor 3 : pfefferspray of the police .
four : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
speaker 6 : social decline . seven : 65 dead .
eight : tsunamic warning . nine : cyberattacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- they could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of a day , our senses are catching up much more information than our brain can ever process .
and because we care more than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it sorts and cuts through all the information looking for any suggestion of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices , seven days a week , 24 hours a day , making all these negative news , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks that the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodstream continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
perhaps in the last century , the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made is accelerating through a series of forces is so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodegradation , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at anticipating problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so that we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has been tripled to inflation in the average income in the world has tripled .
child mortality has decreased by a tenth .
and the cost of food , electricity , transportation and communication costs have decreased by a lot of times .
steve pinker has shown us that we are living in a very peaceful time in human history .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people began to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re continuously increasing our expectations .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these form technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes the information technology is going to make big jumps on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient is doubling every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this genius or that artist -- instead of having a genius .
that &apos;s moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things in this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
furthermore , despite their logarithmic process on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are all available .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something my friends at autodesk call infinite computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet to democratize , synthetic biology , fuel , vaccination and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was a great thing .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson constrains human enemies . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence would be available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year we ask the students to create business , products and services that can be positive within a decade the lives of billions of people .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think that he thinks he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to bury them up to a fragiles , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done just that .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life full of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunities .
it &apos;s about making scarce goods out of scarce .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource that is liberating .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the napoleon iii story in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold contagion .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
the king of siam , however , got aluminum bribe .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at that time , more valuable than gold and plain .
this is why the dome of the aluminum monument was made for aluminum .
even though aluminum 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it &apos;s not as pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy are bouncing onto the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
that disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations for success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , it was the first time that you could reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar power fell 50 percent last year .
last month , this was published with a study that showed that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have water in abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , in 1990 , when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent of the water is iron , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope here .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you something -- he gave me permission -- his technique , which is &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard of , it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , then coca-cola is going to apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technological innovation that we have today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
and we also saw this in mobile phones .
you mean , we &apos;re going to get the 70 percent accumulation rate of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just think that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you look for google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent on several thousand dollars -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally getting dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what we expect in health .
in the last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcommm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaners or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose better than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus , which is not known , it calls the ministry of health , and it prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just passed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected among two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard about before will connect to global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the priesthood education is very extraordinary .
maybe to go back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic shots in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they will be healthier by using the tricoder , and they will be better educated by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing and be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
what about a set of new , never heard before .
how about giving a voice to the oppressed wherever you are , to pay attention and to create change , for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring with us ?
what about the contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only do in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited about .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids and study how the protein will evolve .
depending on its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe from 500 years of rational humanism , we can &apos;t just erase that in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that , today , the human pattern recognition works better than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked in the day as a assistant of the ceo in a rehab clinic , and at night was the best protein doctor in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the big challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that follow people and apply fatalities to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time , as if i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to make this possible .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the seasonal , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns around statistics and to use a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat is beating 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 strokes .
that is , beat the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and if you tried to throw the ball to the first base , it didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 3,000 in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a all-star .
do you know what they call a 400th ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in the blindfold .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with a clogged heart disease , and your house doctor refers to a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
what we do , however , is that we send everyone , including me , out into the world with the claim to be perfect .
no one ever makes a mistake , but no one is concerned about the details of how it should be done .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
at high school , a student once said that brian goldman would learn for a bloodtest .
and so was it .
and i learned in my little dawn in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely crazy capability of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and outliers of every muscle , every branch of every artery that runs away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnoses .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renale tubuparalysis .
and all the time , i gathered more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything , and i knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close as i could , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while until i met ms. printer .
i resisted at a school hospital here in toronto , as a woman , printer , was brought to me to the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for the emergency patients .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do anything -- in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always behave reasonably .
and to give feedback to my doctor .
i studied printers , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made keen sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart failed , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and filling that gradually , so the shorthand was coming .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i took care of them .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure from the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water pills , so that she would leave the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she began to feel better .
in fact , he can sometimes feel like a lot of paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the listener , and i did what i should have done , which would have been a phone call to my supreme doctor to explain it with him , so that he would have had a chance to make his own image .
and he knew that he would have been able to contribute extra information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the doctor in need .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was so acting , and so i would be able to worry for my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the finstar , in stone huts at the base of the glacier for 18 years , two periods of each nine years , intentionally selected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in their bodies &apos; lap , they are now spending metamorphorically in the lap of the great mother .
i had this encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all her life , and she told me that when she grew up in the villages of virginia , she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape coming up to her .
by sending them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so sick of self-confidence that i asked the nurse , who was taking care of ms. printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgence papers and an ambulance and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there was another nurse , not the nurse who had seen printer after ms. printer , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are afraid of this as well , but the emergency care is particularly because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words were : do you remember ?
&quot; remember the patients that they sent home ? &quot;
the nurse was asking , you know , surely .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back , and she was dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed and the family called 911 . the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency station with a 50 blood pressure , which is a dangerous shock state .
she hardly breathed , and she walked blue .
it would roll over the country to you .
the emergency staff pulled all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure up .
they attached them to the breathing machine .
i was shocked , and i was shocked into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to the intensive care after stability , and i hoped it would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered an untreatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to it .
on the day of the day , they went -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
they say you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i made a suggestion , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one swore you up and you get caught up and the best friend confronts you with it and leads you a terrible discussion , but if you end up with the bad conscience , and you swear you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do reconciliation and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way that i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick in the heart .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that &apos;s not what you &apos;ve done , but that you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , he was very dear .
she knew that at such a moment she could do one thing , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , but surely it was .
i started feeling better .
and then on a cloudy day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never made a mistake again , that the voice could stumble .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was only that she had to quickly get to a piece of paper and a pencil , so she could catch it up and hold it through her and hold on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had an emergency station service in a local hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with full rays .
it was a lot of going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the racks , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin , and i sent him on .
and even as he walked out of the door , he pointed at his rays .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief director asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through it , and she missed it . she said it would move across land and -- as she said -- look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature revenge ? &quot;
it turns out he was infecting a streptococcus infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rake , but the upper respiratory path , and it causes the closing of the breath .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenues of antibotica , and he recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated and went back to work until it happened over and over again .
in an emergency class , i used to overlook a blindfold .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff going on , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that was only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no shortage in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- the part i &apos;ll never forget -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one thought i had kidney stones .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that wasn &apos;t found , my colleague , when the patient was reviewed , put a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to look at him as well .
and he did , and when he noticed a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they got surgery , and they were fine .
both cases naked me , and they raised me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my clothes have happened over the last five years .
alone , shame and without support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through it , and she grabs a pencil just as it goes through it , and then she said -- she said -- was like having her other hand grabbing it and getting it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i &apos;m quietly voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so that you don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard somebody talking about failures about failures ?
oh yeah , they go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about their own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support and start telling them what i just told you , i would very likely not get to the end of the second story , before they got really uncomfortable , anybody would join a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i or my colleagues knew that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken off someone &apos;s wrong leg , they would believe me that i had trouble looking at them .
that &apos;s the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- those who make mistakes and those who don &apos;t make any , those who constrain sleep deficiency and those who have no constraints , who have bad outcomes and good results .
she caught the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies attacking a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we banned those who make mistakes out of medicine , we &apos;re left with a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical sensation and journalism , i did a personal medical study on medical errors and wrong treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first papers , which i wrote to my &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; for the toronto star .
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inexorable .
we &apos;re working in a system where mistakes happen every day , where one out of 10 medications is either a wrong or a wrong dozen , where hospital infections are getting more and more and more and more and more devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of consistent errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is the number of 100,000 .
both are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as precisely as we should .
and this is the crux .
and all that time , they are culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so we can take a perfect pathway for a patient with a breast pain .
then i take the same patient with a chest pain , and i sweat him and weak him and give another slightly alcoholized breath , and suddenly the story is permeated with contempt .
i &apos;m not taking the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this , in summary , is error inevitable .
so if you take the system in the way that i was taught , and you put out all the error health workers , there &apos;s no one left at all .
when i heard that , i thought , that &apos;s kind of creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the bodies of people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would go to every rescue assistant to the chief of the cardiologists , say , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , they came in front of their head , then they look down and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that they &apos;re able to do .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the new defined doctor is a person , white to make his humanity , accepting them , is not proud of making mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning from them so that they can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports them when others talk about their mistakes .
and it shows others their mistakes , not just to make it , but in a loving , supportive way , so that everybody can benefit from it .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , then people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups , which can make it easier to make mistakes , that make people inevitable , and also enable loving , supportive spaces , where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually talk about things that are potential errors and even rewarded for them , and especially for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for grading them .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret it , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a mouse . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about transformative standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories earlier to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
by the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my mouths , sometimes this thing was ripping .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos islands or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
and yet , we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos islands .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is going to show a different concept that can make a difference in the border .
because i experienced it when i was in 1971 studying a lagoon in west africa .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really wasn &apos;t from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a few mangroves were surrounded .
there were about 20 centimeters of bunk , black mouth brothers , a kind of shelter of the bunk bark .
the fishermen were very productive , and the fishermen lived good at it and earned the average good in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew up with five centimeters .
they had been genetically pressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came out of a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also fortunate to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my participation in the introduction of the trawl net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fish promoting meant countries that have caught 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing catch of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on to it , and we did the elevations in the entire southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we caught there .
i now know it was the cause of the ocean .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the debris pile , were coral reefs .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came up on deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you run a survey and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case -- a hard reason , or soft coral , is a matchmaker crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
once we caught a living one .
she was not drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of debris is collected every time by fishermen drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to this without losing our minds , but actually keeping ourselves in mental health in the opposite ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it &apos;s changing over time . it &apos;s changing because , for people , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that they take at the beginning of their conscious life as a standard and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
for me , the best living example is how you can do this , the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , you just want to get the pathetic remains .
that &apos;s what we &apos;re going to do now , largely .
we want to get things that are gone , or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem was looking at people who surely , when they lived in predatory societies , killed animals and became aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common , becomes rarely once before it dies .
so you don &apos;t lose the animals that are often occurring .
you always lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a big loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they are suddenly taken out and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to shine on the hangers of the astonishing landscape , all of a sudden what they &apos;ve learned in the abstract splendor is amazing . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really what i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life was tom the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
the question is why people accept that .
well , because you don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they present in an earlier form is not the way they would like to show the evidence .
there &apos;s , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain that looked at large fish proposals in this area can &apos;t be used , or fisheries scientists don &apos;t normally be used because it &apos;s not scientific .
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me that he was driving on a highway in los angeles one day , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that it enables them to reclaim their normal values .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color sounds and the shadows may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it calls something that has been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron , so he turns &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often inspiring , is very , very difficult to grasp , and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s letting it , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it with the government .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could track the creator of this thought .
and we couldn &apos;t understand in the west how anyone could do that , and how much that would restrict the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that makes the site clear to you and your printer .
that &apos;s what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about this .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that we have today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like , you know , i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked from this song to forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watt .
björn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come to wealth online , but they &apos;ve been getting it illegal by using trojans online to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror , two months ago , was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and on this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on the open foot , the locations are unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that it &apos;s more likely today that we &apos;re going to be victims of an online crime than one in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this will only get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not going to do it .
the second largest attacker group that we see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through their audience .
and groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months , and have become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main flu groups : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous who do it , but the last group are nations , governments who lead the attacks .
we &apos;re looking at cases like diginotar .
it illustrates what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a full-scale certificate from the netherlands -- or was it .
in the last fall , it had to report insolvence , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a dutch government meeting , i asked one of the senior members of this group if he could do it , that because of the diginotar hack people had died .
but instead of getting in panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in a consequence of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , a certificate requires , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all , or many of us , use gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted on ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but can you , if you go into an alien ?
certification agency hacking and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 , the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
there was a folder in these records called finfisher .
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that had sold some programs to the egyptian government , which they could -- in very large scale -- capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools for them to go against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strajans found , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to deploy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , your phone is pretty much likely to be tapped .
he just looked into the sky , and he said , &quot; excuse me , can you see i &apos;m driving a car ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state jellyfish to play their computer with a trojan who allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not for the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
do i look like i could write a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right that we &apos;re abandoning is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we trust , blindly , any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with solid measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they allowed us to build things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment when i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connected stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones have been produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges , beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
meanwhile , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a static , stacked building block to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just experts .
if not , squawk somebody else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hand of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
that &apos;s how you can &apos;t put them together in the wrong way .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue one and a green one , and you can quickly build bigger cycles .
they put a blue on a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to add a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wired or resolved , littlebits allows them to program with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow down the blind , they just turn on this button , and it makes the pulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to get every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , sound , solar panels , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how they start to understand the electronics that surround them in their everyday lives and they don &apos;t learn in school .
how a night light works , for example , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had designers , for example , with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and said , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh who &apos;s afraid of darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , is ours .
so , go ahead and start inventing it .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds him was lifted when he took out the genius , where he did nothing but trouble and left him back to where he came from . he realized that there was no internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit the way i worked , and it saved me once .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love -- i fell into one of those pisses of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . that &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are the younger brothers who are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just put the project in .
but then i remembered how tom talked in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took a look at the manuscript , and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see , i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then the hell with that .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , though , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to give you a protocol that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people gathered to monthly with holy dances and music that were held for hours -- until dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became oversecular .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance in your life .
it was like time to stand still , and the dancer would come through a kind of pformat , and he would do nothing but he &apos;d ever done before -- 1,000 nights before , but it all got together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be fully human .
he was lit up from the inside , and he was lit from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like that happened , people knew what that was . they called it in his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , &quot; allah , allah , allah , god , god . &quot;
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : as the moirs of southern spain conquered , they brought this practice , and the language changed over the centuries of michael allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , that you still hear in the pen fight and flamenco dances .
whenever we think about innate and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old framework of the noble wild , which in its simplification is a racist thought or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical , which is , you know , the olé , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer himself wake up and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer has a fifth of god in him .
he &apos;s just an aging mortality with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never go back to these heights .
and maybe no one will call god &apos;s name again when he turns . but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of pure , if you didn &apos;t believe in the beginning , that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just think that you &apos;re a loan -- from a unimaginable source for a reader time of your life that &apos;s passed on to somebody else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about this , it changes everything .
so , indigenous are not sentimental , nor are they being selected by the nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think , surely in the last few months , while i was working on the book that will soon seem -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly expected successor of my outcome .
what i have to say to myself all the time , when i get crazy about it , is , don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be there for your contribution , whatever you want to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the stupid divine genius , which is aside from you , for a moment , decides to show a smoke of wonder through your effort , then ...
and if not , dance your dance anyway .
and , you know , with all that .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria swamps of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have a mysterious nimbus of the earth that &apos;s not based on the idea of being aware of them , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist , because it &apos;s being breathed into the human mind .
so , with all of you , just for having the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had shrinked the size of the bottom 48 states by 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse recording of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is labeled with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows to the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is the frozen reason for the arctic ocean , where there &apos;s huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s lighting up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate-changing materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we crossed that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane , it &apos;s from the water itself .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled with another group of work to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how are we going to get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat rush heats up greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andean , who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu mind , who &apos;s going to be or her destiny , will become a whole other person , and have a different relationship with that resource or that place , as a little kid from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be discarded .
this is an annual dive water flow .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the kanger suaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level is going through the ice sheet , it &apos;s going into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly accepting .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which came up over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is equivalent to 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see on the top of new lakes , which were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a repository of a mind or a bunch of ore , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amounts of water have expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is for the storage basins .
and the predictions as you read them are serious .
this austrosis around the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes around the world have grown in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons every day in the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific , the american continent western and both the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is probably the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build lots of other coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be raced .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal industries and oil industries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i was walking around at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow in all of our country in america .
this is what happened at christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this one .
frosty the carbon man is a delight , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the locations of hukuk and the curved heavens and the cannibali spirits that live on the north of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers remain in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has created two campaigns .
this is one , one part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
that &apos;s why we set ourselves to the top line to spend a substantial amount of money on the way to get an advertising to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons why global warming is changing the remarkable clean coal technology that you see here .
look carefully at it , this is the current , clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting the earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i took just last april in the northwest amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon dioxide , like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold new solution to get us out of that miserable situation .
provide america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
new america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that chop our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
supply america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to your childhood when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab , pick up the blocks and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is intimately connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my professional adviser patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we were to use computers , instead of a mouse cursor that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and put it in the way we want it ?
this question was so striking that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can detect their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , which is why you can only move them like building blocks through the extension of your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other , and perceive the enemies of our transition with them , then we can start exploring new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video release , and when i throw it in a direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , it makes you interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by einaders , you &apos;ll notice that too , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to realize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that we do with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour color in the middle where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shy back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and we want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i create with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every sift , randomly admitted letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested on a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomami snuff this stuff , this substance that they make from different species also contains methoxydimethtryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came out on a trip to the media lab , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest beta tester down there on the bottom right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack up the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
snuff this powder is kind of like being shot out of a guns run , floated by baroque paintings , and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickle twist .
we wanted to develop a learning tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table , showing this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun goes up .
now he &apos;s going to get a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can have the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... inventing his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example i have time to show you today is a musical sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the siftables as a sound , like leadership voice , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you feed them by just holding a ton siftable on a sequencing sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like reverberation and filter .
you connect it to a particular sound , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed this with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic ethirea with the discovery of the magical mushrooms in mexico in the 300s , and i suggested that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as hallucinogen , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there anymore to experience a hallucination .
and then even more ordered effects like speed and volume , which you apply to the entire sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re going to start by putting the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and putting it in a row , expanding it and adding a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drummer so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by kicking the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m still connecting the filter to the barrel for a little more expression .
i can make the sequence work as it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i can expand them or shrink them in the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken up orderly , because , in the human gut , of course , they &apos;re denaturized by monoamine oxidase .
and finally , i can unwind the whole sequence by ending the volume strength to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my enthusiasm is to develop new human-computer interfaces that are better adapting to how our brains and bodies are working .
and today i had time to show you part of this new design world and some of the ways we work on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the verge of this new generation of advertising with digital media interactions that bring information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversation with all of you !
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy to be there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be linked to a couple of other chemicals that are orbiting the mao .
i have to take a little bit of it , and that &apos;s biohacking is dealing with modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been doing biohacking for a few years now , and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve been starting to do , because i just wanted to know more , and i wanted to do it in particular , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is , already , extremely important , and much , much more important is going to become in the future .
there are things that are so controversial , like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there are now craig venter in the u.s. , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
now , there are things that have come in completely day-to-day life , but what most people don &apos;t realize is , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically modified enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only meet you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the takarboline , which is in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to potentially power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest in this technology , i just went in there further .
so why is it that hacking ?
most people know that from the software area , they know that .
computers hack , and then the media always goes like this , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what they actually started out like , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started out with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came from .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem is , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a problem of access , which is , sort of , simplify things , a problem problem that you want , and how do you do it differently , or how do you do it better ?
and it &apos;s just become a piece of software , but there &apos;s also a lot of electronics , and there &apos;s a whole bastler scene , and electronics circuits do all kinds of things .
and i want to take this metaphor now towards biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinting plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i found that incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get into it much deeper .
it &apos;s actually only taken two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe , and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people around the world .
these are a more artistic facility , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborations with scientists to engage with these technologies and to ask questions and to work creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really about finding this kind of loose access , having this kind of playful deal with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the united states a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and then they &apos;re also asked , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , they have evolved a scene that i want to briefly portray .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit contract , where everyone can go .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with them , they set up a lab , and they look at what can you do when these lab protocols are .
on the lower left is a group in indonesia called house-of-natural-fiber , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for a long time than those other two networks .
they also work in a kind of artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics building blocks , and they combine it in a very abundant way .
a group from ankara , which i met a while ago , which is a group of students who wanted to communicate more what they were learning in college , and they did so on street fests , and they tried to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the topic .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with that , and also , very specifically , to the society , to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have any interest in bringing you in this way ? &quot;
so , okay , now to hack biology , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant is talking to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab , which is kind of a drifted machine , extremely expensive , extremely distance , only for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. students and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , well , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
that &apos;s actually not necessary , because each coffee machine actually has more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really what it is .
and s o , with this premise , then brian degger , for example , tried to put together a minimum deabor in england , then took a steam pressure cooker , a heat plate , and , yes , that &apos;s how it grew bacteria , works .
so anyone who &apos;s ever had a soup , who he &apos;s left for too long , has been doing it .
i then tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought a second-hand equipment on ebay and did some d.n.a analysis , tried to do a paternity test , so / d.n.a fingerprinting , again , to go home .
now this shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but it should be .
now , at the bottom of this picture , you see the lab , in leadership , so one of the things that you can do is you can have a garage with all kinds of lab scaffolding that the university has done , which is a group in paris that has done something , and is pretty successful at it , and also pretty interesting things , i want to do a little bit of a project .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , well , you see , it &apos;s relatively straight , so there are people doing this alone , up to large , larger organizations that are already doing this in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but just always the idea that it should be easy and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we became sort of aware of ourselves , okay , it &apos;s now giving us a real scene here , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then , from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founders , and he said , okay , we really have to meet with this , real meeting , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and shortly after that in the united states , in san francisco .
and then it was also about , yes , okay , who are we , what do we want to share , what do we want ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , his and what moves them , then .
and then , in my opinion , a very good code came along .
and we have that one , then , is not compatible , but that &apos;s yes , i think , has been pretty good , people are very convinced of that .
and we even then tried to bring that back into the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at great distances in the forest that seem to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we from the biohacking scene are actually a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects do we actually do now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build what we call an optical trap or an optical tank .
that is , if you focus a laser beam on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move that focus , you know , it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , maybe we &apos;ll get this down , then we took a webcam that screwed up , turned the lens off , then you &apos;ve got a microscope that &apos;s going up about four hundred times .
that &apos;s what you see down there .
and then we screwed a d.v.d brenner apart , and we pulled the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it anyway .
this is another project that came out of the french group out of paris , that worked out , that &apos;s pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got a kind of , you know , a brain wave measuring device like e.e. or something , so he &apos;s been doing neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understood something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what went on .
then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought , then they went on to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fancy project .
another thing from the united states , which also has to do with this paternity history , is the p.c.r , which is the polymerase chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , d.n.a , replicating fragments so that you can see them .
so if i do this , the profilers in the crime scene , they go and collect some hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like that .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyan area , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they put two builders on this , and they said , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;re going to have open source , which is free hardware , electronics , and they &apos;re going to assemble this device , and they &apos;re actually going to get this to the marketplace , and they &apos;re now the cheapest supply of these devices in the world .
i think that kind of six-dollar or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a frame where it &apos;s going to be much more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i had just started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure pistol that shoots about that far , two centimeters or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles and then the gold particles into this air pressure pistol , and then i shooted them on onions , and then i got them to light up with it .
so the device that you see there , that didn &apos;t work .
but this is my kind of prototype , but it was pretty abandoned , like this , on a branch , the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure on it , and that was the pressure , but it was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a rooster and i attached that to it .
so , it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in full moon and you sing them into a different pitch .
a sailor , if you put the power full of water , the pressure is enough , so i think , 40 to six thousand bar .
and then you can accelerate the particles so much , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about 50 thousand euros up , or something like that , chicken commutes about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
so , this is the core issue of the scene right now , is to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea , and also no chance of really forming .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you did it yourself or saw it .
and i think technology is becoming increasingly important in our modern societies .
and if you want to make meaningful decisions as an informed citizen in society , and you want to be able to talk to them , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to be able to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than tribal .
and that then , in the words of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that , as citizens , you &apos;re being able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who have at least officially contributed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a pretty remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s also interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re there are fewer people than actually exist .
so i know some of you who didn &apos;t carry in .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
part of it is also with these hackerspaces , so these places put together .
