you know , one of the great reasons about traveling and one of the joyful things about ethnography is to live with the people who can remember the old days . who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of plants .
together , the world &apos;s countless cultures form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important for the earth &apos;s sake as the biological food web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the indigenous , look at them as orginially and colorful , but somehow they &apos;re constrained to the past , while the real world , that is progress in our world .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-nine hundred .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we hope , of course , that we &apos;re going to spread similarly , and then also , similarly well connected , so that more people can be involved in it .
and i would invite everyone to deal with it and try something .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity , and you put enough energy in it , you get a long way .
thank you very much for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
so , the fact is that in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era in which we were against and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not change .
how do we actually work for people ?
that &apos;s a question that really moves me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and in front of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media , and so they can create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that the interactive media within us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can create them just by interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech that you &apos;re facing is actually going to bring you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them for a second .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve been able to do in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a fundamentally natural relationship with virtuality .
so that sounds kind of unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new opportunities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that , and i &apos;m going to try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is , because of these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very , very imagery , even though today we use a coded language .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that the interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the sensitivity of linearity , and what of course tells us is that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information transmission .
now what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove this to you .
how many doors do you have the house that you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s happening right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in , and look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality , and they do it without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and there we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , to show virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do this all the time .
and that wealth to virtualize the reality that people have had to do in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photooligraphy .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory was going on .
the sioux indians did not hear less about sioux than they did bow and arrow tasks when the americans stopped being americans when they were doing horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called off , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge was passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yes , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , the human being was also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;ll talk about in a moment .
fundamental tool of information mediation has been history since any time .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shame , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were added to preserving knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong on stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we &apos;re still connecting a thousand hours each year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories until the age of the grandchildren .
now we think our love of stories depends on the fact that we sat on the lap of our parents as a child .
no , no , far missing .
this goes much further back into the pre-industrial cultures .
but to me , in the field of interactive media , as a particularly impressive thing is that we have anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought an example with you from the nootka-indian north american tribe .
and they lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with so-called lead-land maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , of the australian inhabitants .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-landing maps , they used the so-called songlines , or the traummers .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be depicted by songs .
where they were subordinated by the language of subordinated rang .
that is , you navigate about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology that topography was a region , and that , of course , also allowed you to defragment these songs and put them in other ways and move to the left , to the right , and also to move back to the output .
but why don &apos;t we sing to get from above to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
so what happened there ?
what happened is that this is the gendered machine age .
we &apos;ve moved before in what we call the age of birds .
what happened is the machine age , and it happens is the book , and it &apos;s the photooligraphy .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened , is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories on external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so we have , unfortunately , a piece of god to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the image , not the television , the internet and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media of our memories have fossilized and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people , is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lives , is not only convicted , but in general , and in many ways , celebrated as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intersection .
from the age of birds to the machine age .
what does it have to affect our thinking and our memory ?
then these are the fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they are over-prescribed over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
so instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we no longer produce ourselves .
we have an abstract language that &apos;s abstract .
we &apos;re no longer imagining the thing in images that are no longer in images , but we &apos;re coding it to you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetans if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the storytelling .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested to the storytelling as information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vow age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds like a lot of science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage , they bring us these opportunities back to rediscover our ability .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain that for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspirations and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
i used to travel with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china through southeast tibet to lhasa , and then when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about , 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so , if you look at google glasses , for example , then such a concept that can recombine the virtual world with the real world , that means our affinity to virtualization , the virtual sense of feeling as something normal , natural is reviewed .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
now , as crazy as that may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving into not existing , virtual worlds , entirely in the image of the holodeck .
and other examples are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligently to a human .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to embrace virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor &apos;s work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz .
and the two last two are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a moment so that they can talk to the two about the project at the break .
and i brought this project as an example of how to address this archaic , cognitive model .
the father of this young man was identified as a follower of the panch lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people are happy in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with some console in their hands .
anyway , you do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s designed to think that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so i &apos;m exploring the real world again .
and this game connects the virtual world , the data , the space that we produce , to the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
and you can explain that a lot better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is that i discover a city by looking at where positive or negative twittered in places .
that meant that he was killed instantly during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can now look at that .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , and that is , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the age of the vow , and that have been so slightly disrupted in the machine age that , with the help of the cyber age , it can be activated again , and that , in this way , we can get about complex , technological , new products , not into the future , but actually come back to us .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very excited to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking bag and mine instead of talking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness , bringing people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a form of house , so i &apos;m also , of course , looking at the subject of curiosity , and how curiosity also changes the way we think , and why do we lose curiosity , and why do we have to repel it , and so on .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re looking at next to the actual existence as a shape .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put into this kind of n research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half a year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why are all the designers starting to deal with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , more user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and before the background , i was in the field of natural user interface design , so the next generation in the human computer , in the relationship of the human computer , and how our tools , or how the computer , from the computer , changes from the superconductor to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at this , when is natural or intuitive .
maybe you have to look at that again .
why does this happen at all ?
so , if we look at the evolution of our society here for a second , we &apos;re now moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that means that you found yourself , by talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , you moved into the same cave , or in other areas , cities have formed , or villages , and you &apos;ve created , in a way , tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into prison at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no infants can talk about nature , but we learn it sucessive and proportionately .
that was then triggered by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started to manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and i throw it in stone and i manipulate it .
and of course , depending on how i do and when i do it , it &apos;s a very different kind of coverage than if there &apos;s a living one .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got in .
then the next generation that we &apos;re actually living in today is actually primarily .
this is the script that &apos;s shaped by pressure and print with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was also a monkey ront , where adel , klerus and others said , are you insane when the people start reading , then the people want to talk , and of course that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now , that we &apos;re going to participate in this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused by this because we see , on the one hand , the new media , social media , facebook , and so on .
the sister who did this brave activity was brought to an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no more beef or other phenomena , which is , i want to just distort this and do this .
and these two worlds are just crawling up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is very diverse from many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think local ecologically , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work .
so , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitively , but also the total transparency .
as you know in the village at the time , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is happening today over this expansion of ourselves through these mobile devices at the global level .
whether it &apos;s that we know globally accumulating and accumulating faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped out of sight on a armband maos , and for this transmission , she had to go to a difficult job camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
before the background , i was just looking at this , what does it mean , what else is natural for us , what is it that we might have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that everybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with what that means , and not just change it , it &apos;s different , but it should be better .
and when , of course , is a little intuitive , and how can i take a shape and make things so that they &apos;re usable , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and easy to use .
you &apos;re going to be dealing with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology as well during the study .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i just look inside the inner self .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in this ?
and what does , of course , mean , intuitive and how does our channels work in perception , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetan can be intolerable , but the dissolved mind of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs used to say you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in the details , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitively handable , which means at the core .
and there you can see that you have our seven senses , most of which we think are only five , now it &apos;s already seven acknowledged , and certainly the next , awe-sense , and the extension of ourselves is coming in .
and looking at how we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand , in essence , in nature , when information becomes information , when it becomes information and information , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , handable afterwards .
and of course , also , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i shape things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what salt and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
and at the end of it , we &apos;re really in a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of the monotonies , or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a vessel , but i kind of see directly where is salt and pepper in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll first think about where &apos;s in the right .
and just taking an intuitive grasp on the left , and hopefully , that no sugar is in there , giving the salt right now .
but also , our perception of ourselves , how it &apos;s fooling us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right-hand circle looks bigger than the little one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , who said great anthropologist before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that , as we move towards a thread , staggering , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced to a contested mindset , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there have ever been other possibilities .
so it &apos;s circle .
a second circle is already starting to correlate or associate some similarity .
and then when i put another halboval on it , we suddenly see not just one more unit , which is circle , circle , and yet we see a unit , we don &apos;t see more three parts , a circle , a circle , another .
this is what &apos;s called gestalt law , or gestalt psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important to the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great shape laws .
shape laws of closeness , shape laws of continuity and so on .
it &apos;s often forgotten in the third one .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get involved in it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
namely , they projy a assumption that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re only projieving our vision before we see it , bringing it back to the back of our semiconductor to say , okay .
i have this cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projured what you want to see .
and that &apos;s also there , and then that comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , i &apos;m really looking for you again , and i &apos;m sure that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and what millisecond areas these things are going on .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment we were signing the cult of the seeds , the poetry of the shame replaced by the prose of priesthood and hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- was only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
that &apos;s exactly the same thing that i &apos;ve just described .
now , everybody in this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see anything ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;re never going to forget it because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you always see him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled them now , that they don &apos;t recognize any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning them within a very short period of time , to see this dog in this obscure picture .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projieving forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very exciting processes , which then happen to be in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s just here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s also interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times by engaging someone with three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
it &apos;s got to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does fifty milliseconds take ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period that you fall in love with .
that means , attention , if you know that now , look at who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression happens at a rapid speed , as we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , what we &apos;re paying attention to , and how we sort of defend ourselves against our environment , so that we can think of that as well .
of course , the shape is not just about perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily , about the subject of human object .
so how does a human being deal with certain things ?
there &apos;s a product language , which is the practical functions , so formal aspects or formalathetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does someone give for such a little day , where hardly anything fits in , so horrendous sum of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more like the symbolic , at the meaningful level , which we &apos;re looking at as designers , of course .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface , and the subject , which is obviously behind , is usability .
usability always means how quickly can i achieve a certain goal , or how can a user in a certain context of use be able to effectively , efficiently and happily achieve a goal .
that &apos;s how it says the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the ability to be what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens need to thrive a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible user-friendly ?
can i use that directly , or do i need &quot; n handbook , &quot; or i need &quot; ne . &quot;
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s more handable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you partly look at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is little intuitive or not usable , the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , although it &apos;s already much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not only since apple is a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental success factor , if i want to make technology available to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , we &apos;re on average five times faster .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , it takes five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , you only have an hour .
here &apos;s a picture that i took at the north end of the baffin islands , when i went to the narwhal-jagd with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to have to go home for probably four hours , but you &apos;re going to get your employer , or somebody &apos;s going to come up with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance for us to do certain things .
so if we go back to the area of software , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one , which is already working with the nem model , or the mental model , like the software eergonoma , came up with an idea of something , the metaphor , of a desktop , to use the computer .
so no longer zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it a lot more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more on behavior .
so , as a shape , i form a lot more often than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that i suddenly feel that the appearance of success is becoming an application for usability .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and during the 50th years in the advent of the establishment of our sovereignty , they were forced to move into settlements .
and if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i have language , by touch , by touch , by gesture , and by mouse and cursor , i have to control things even faster and even more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point where things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to put my little friend here and look , what does that mean , from the cognitive sergonomy point of view , when is it really a little intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always a little intuitive for us humans , if i have to think about it very little .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t want to think , but he wants to make it reasonably easy .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
so if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a shape .
that means that i can also transfer an intuitive human action model to a software and make the software much more user-friendly .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of human beings , and i &apos;ve already told you .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is something called the osit-model .
this is what each of us and osit is an acronym , and stands for guidance , selective , informed , transmitted .
each of you does that all the time , but it makes it unconscious and sort of intuitive or partly instinctive .
the model is already exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works in young and old worldwide , and it &apos;s used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to 70-odd thousand times by activity , so in the sleep , what you &apos;ve found is that it &apos;s then punished less often than the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer transactions to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , of an action principle .
and this is on a higher degree of user-friendliness than that of transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and now , if i transfer this , for example , in which i consider guidance as a supervision , selective as a choice , informed in the trap , it comes up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transcription , i can throw this in some place , or send it to somebody , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an astonishingly knowledgeable species .
the family that was scared for his life took him all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
now i &apos;m interacting with the object , so to speak , can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and i can now filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can reach out to things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than if you have hierarchical websites or other mechanisms that can sort of make these things accessible .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to close a and give the clue , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and ask .
i want to give you a very particular aspect of curiosity .
the first thing , when you &apos;re a child , as a baby , is that you care about what excrement you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and drive , more or less , in the pottery , the more , in a way , your curiosity is , of course , tissue .
and the curiosity is not learning .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold , they used it to their advantage .
so everyone here is curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
now , i &apos;m talking about basically doing this whole environmental discussion , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point here .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give off about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphans through the world &apos;s ocean .
the slides of their sledges were originally made out of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
if we actually don &apos;t take a phosphorus and leave it .
what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re looking at something that would actually be self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we &apos;ve only had phosphorus for two years , and now , through the phosphorus mining , there &apos;s a lot more uranium being put into the environment than in all the nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , 50,000 tons of uranium have been distributed on our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the waving storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , consume less energy .
but that &apos;s not protection .
it &apos;s like , if i were to say , shock your child , it &apos;s only three times instead of five .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weigh to the bathtub , our entire earth will be sooner or later a cemetery .
that &apos;s why thinking about the weigh to the weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , more than six percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , dropped his pants down from sea fur and defeated into his hand , and as the feces began to freeze , he formed them into the form of a measuring .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 pounds per hectare of 30 tons , or the square meter .
that means we lose in the ground about five thousand times more than we are reformed .
of course , we can look at the waste problem first .
and everything is package or content .
for example , in openbach , the garbage is 20 percent of the garbage amount now .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of them in the pre-wind phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalia measurement , and when it was frozen , he amazed a dog with it .
it &apos;s balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement to the pigs through the solid ingredients .
in the people about the urine .
yes .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s what it is , isn &apos;t it ?
he contains the dog and improvised a dishes , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sled , put another dog on it , and dragged over the ice customs with the fecalian knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people who , if you tell the people to exist , that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they will become subtle and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you surround , the better .
yes .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , so far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that is , the ants weigh much more than we do .
this is how you can make something out of nothing .
and because they work much tougher than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they correspond in their weight , in their energy consumption , a 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are , what we really wanted to do , and how sad we are , that we are at all on earth , you can see , for example , that open stream has a program , until 20 , you want to be here , climaneutral , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the innate people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
have you ever heard about some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most striking bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that would really have to go back into circles .
and so we &apos;re too many .
just about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit back in april 1999 complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-landing , no bioland , no natural progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , it &apos;s the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was very discarded , it happened with the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
right now we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a night &apos;s pot is still called honey pots , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has always taken , but never gave anything back to the farmers .
and it made the cities grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities kept on getting their nutrients .
it &apos;s an independent area . you control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanding until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to break civilization for five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you expect to eat the food that they stay until they pick up the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and to take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat them , not to feed theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
the beautiful thing is , if you do that , which is , agriculture , makes biogas , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , so that a farmer can get about a thousand-and-a-half dollars and wait the plant to grow chickens and pigs and pigs and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over ninety percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve review with its residents .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be as little as possible .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re so designed by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that means that the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 to 50 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw a liter of aluminum in that light , and then it would be ruined over years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people to be as bad as possible .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they &apos;re not removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do anything , you write down , in germany , the best way to do all of the enlightenment plants is the one in france .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in the open stream , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankfurter plant could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see this as phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been working in holland now for three years .
the dutch government explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
they are the home countries of somebody .
but we need it all together .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the phosphorus in the world .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six-and-a-half countries that control 40 percent of the oil reserves .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and most of all , to ask what &apos;s the right thing to do .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent part of the human imagination that goes back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you pissed her , and you get 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really , really , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
there we go .
this is not exactly correct , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much kiss are kissed .
but a lip pen , even in that lighting , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but completely effective , right ?
one thing that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better and deploy it and lose all the materials for cycles in the burn facility , but to ask the first thing , how do you make cycles ?
imagine mozart efficient .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner , and i say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open stream flavor and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world , and our website receives 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have any environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
at every place you throw away , from , yes , you recreate opportunities for life .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
as we think from north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
156 nations send our television channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is washing away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
and then i say , &quot; sorry , right ? &quot;
that &apos;s the minimum right now .
so , don &apos;t save , get rid of it .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust , when you see in italy , people in the high bow are throwing out of the car like this .
because , you know , it &apos;s a fun thing to do .
it &apos;s a form of re4 behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature liquid .
no biologist , for example , would argue that 50 percent or more of all species are just before extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenarium in the field of biodiversity -- is barely what &apos;s known as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re entering a series of trips into the ethnosphere where we take our audiences to places of such cultural wonders that they can be blinded by the seen world , and hopefully , one by one , they will embrace the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s degrading everywhere .
and it contains the seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
a television or a washing machine , they just use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that veil , like shoe , like brake bellies , like cars , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just being used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things more free .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we &apos;re realizing what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so it &apos;s not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to first show you , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a transition , just a year ago . this is seadragon . and it &apos;s an environment where you can either locally or remove with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in it that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of this is compostible of it .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for henry and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
so they &apos;re helping with this , they &apos;re asking people about this .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the board twice now .
and i &apos;m not so sure they really stay there .
so , help me a little bit about this .
we see lots and lots of gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can get seamlessly and continuously , turning , in any way , rearranging .
but it goes .
yes .
what &apos;s just been shown .
here we go .
we can do things now that , if they veil , if they break , they can go into biological cycles .
you have technical cycles as well .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back to the cycle .
again , in any store , you can get things back .
when you come up , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we &apos;re looking at how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the winds ?
if it &apos;s garbage right now .
there are these diapers all over the place , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
there you go to the deponia , but there you go to the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside it , you can actually go back to cellulosic based on cell , you can plant hundreds of trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , sterilize them and take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for all life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a 300 megapix area .
it &apos;s sort of a beneficial poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything .
i started an institute to do this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there now , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra clue to that , cradle to cradle , where everybody can participate .
so not saving , losing , avoiding , not debt management , but smart waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpreter .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i write that as an interpreter , i understand myself as a translator , in the english word sense .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the word for word into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and wortzame slope , so that you can get a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already translating german into english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for laymen what we musicians do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes first .
you think that the composer has written into the notes exactly everything that he &apos;s come up with .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description , the fragrance of the flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is just to not hear the sawdust of the wind .
that means that the interpret has to translate this inexact language of language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to translate what i otherwise translate to musical language , which is interpreting , again into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equivalent to translating the translation of the translation .
so , the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to learn to read just grades , and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because these are just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the meaning of the letters is that you can only recognize the language .
so , for the learning process of music language , you need at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there are deprivations , whether you learn it for the use of it , just passively understands or you can talk actively , until the musical native speaker .
the work of the interpreter starts similar to the work of a theater director .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you first research on the back of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , keyboards , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you compare it .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , and it &apos;s not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texts and not a picture .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think of yourself in that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpret , you have a rich knowledge about the composer that you play more and more , and it makes you easier to think and feel in it .
the composer becomes more and more like the friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now , since the notes are anything but an accurate record of the song of the composer , it &apos;s just a scaffold , i &apos;m going to turn this scaffold back to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
and i say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator for this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way to read an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might mean .
now for me and for the composer at that time , and what you might mean to him today .
every note , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own now , personally .
it has to be consensus for me in this room , and now i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i &apos;m allowed to have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for so long , to experience how new .
how to reexperience a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , standing up , going to breakfast , going to work , i always do the same piece over and over again to the new .
i grew up again a day that switches seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer that the sound comes back than at home .
i &apos;m aware of the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also affects my experience with composition .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , excited conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and it &apos;s going to be answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music this way , and you as the audience have experienced how music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i will never play as much as i did at that moment .
i can &apos;t play today as in 20 years .
so i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore i &apos;m going to have a lot more color chances , emotions and feelings than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to get some color pots out of it , but get new ones in it .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curve for music students at my beloved old teacher , professor jzurgen , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and long-standing professor of music college here in stage .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early , at age 10 , and so i was on his classes at my school .
i was seventh 10 when i went back to one of his courses , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballade for me .
this is such a contracted part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was cheating , and he was like , you know ?
that must be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over 60 .
well , with seventh 10 , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have significant memories .
i &apos;m playing the play again every few years , and it &apos;s changed for me , even though no single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
one example of this from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but in different daytime , different light .
he transferred the sailors in a different way , as he saw them , as they did at that moment , to him .
his personal impressions of the sailors .
the x-fold interpretation of a piece is this comparable .
by now , i &apos;m older than chopin at the age of 30s when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper output of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium of several orders of magnitude .
he only lived nine and a half years .
and i care about looking back into the notes , even though i mean , being able to memorize them .
to keep twin prayers right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
now , music class is often the way you learn how to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read before you just talk a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something in the corner of this particular issue of the guardian .
when all the fingers are moving in time and just like it is in the notes , then sounds come out that sound like music together .
when that happens freely , the student gets the next difficult piece .
interpretation is barely spoken in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s presto in the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and loud , f and b , etc .
most people here know that .
but even though you translate these ideas , it still remains a little technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very basic .
namely , that in order to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because it didn &apos;t pretend the parents , it won &apos;t do by themselves .
it &apos;s like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to make it sound about another way , which is to make it sound like an instrument .
so people who have never singed have never felt instantly with their own body what it &apos;s like to form a sound like .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the continuous narrative today with music is not promoting it .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
each of your own music is made up when you &apos;re constantly summed with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask the question , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to find out whether they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal cords .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they were complained to them that they &apos;re inexchangeable .
and i ask , how peculiar was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or a third opinion , as you say today , beautiful ?
or d , they don &apos;t like music , and so they want to have nix to do with it .
what i would regret , though , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a non-intentional candidate .
but please don &apos;t say that , i don &apos;t understand any of classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really picks up these ideas of creating these constraints for the available place on the screen .
and i say , but i &apos;m sure you can say whether you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think it says , i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get rid of food just because they can &apos;t cook .
so they don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music , because they don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether you like it or not .
whether the music is too whistled or too sweet .
say what you feel .
over time , you get claims , and you want to have some more spices , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i demand from my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that that doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- that shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art you never look at has no power to do .
the food that was used by a chef , or a chef , needs to be eaten , and not just looked at it , or exchange recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice sound tapete .
if in an environment where adults make active music , or at least listen to active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play it in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , instead of a red now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different than before .
so that was the very first beginning of a own musical expression .
so the first step to make an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have evolved .
there were bachs at the moment as an instrument that didn &apos;t even have a piano .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had had the soundscape possibilities of today &apos;s modern day .
i can make the notions that the stream has had today sound on the modern wing , which a barockes cembalo can &apos;t .
you know , beethoven also knows that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play anything that an orchestra of then turned out to be unplayable .
so the composers depend on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so they become audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to contribute to this area as well .
and also , what you would think of today in the mind .
or what i &apos;m thinking to myself today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been envy ?
and how did that feel ?
shit .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
so when i come , with my little v w piesel and i &apos;m wrong , this feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s. .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have that big car ?
and this is already losing half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you worked much less than i did .
why do i have to afford that little car ?
and then i immediately come to mind , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to get such uncomfortable feelings as envy simply to disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or revenues or something like that .
i want to talk to you about this mechanism today , or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overlaid on top of the drilling picture of nasa .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie as you may have heard when people say no one has the intention of building a wall .
and then stones are blown up so that they can get the picture behind them .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lies that i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to sustain a lie of life to sustain self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or bring them down .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
from that time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained , the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answeres , just wait .
it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is and how much time it takes to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disturbed relationship to lying .
the artist tells you something , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see , if she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is sharing something with you in such a portrait that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then that uncomfortable feeling disappears , it might not look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
this is now live on the internet . you can check it .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and not only in art , but in volcanoes , in mythology , it appears in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who &apos;s the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility there is from this true origin , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , jumps out of this true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do with politically correctness , to bring over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that holds us the deception without which we can &apos;t even live .
not only do we have in art , in the folk poetry , but also in the science of such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the worchester &apos;s wife bischose .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and human ancestry .
that the human being should descend from the monkey , and , yes , there was at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , &quot; that &apos;s probably not true what charles &apos;s writing . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something when it &apos;s true ?
because without that livelihood , we can &apos;t live .
because we have this self-deception , this sense of being great , descent from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of such an unpredictable organism that still exists , a rock comparable and other things that are unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism resolves and what the traces that it leaves that lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me her .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she particularly likes him because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnically things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healer at this point . something &apos;s wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral judgment uses the word because , we should try to replace it through the word , even though .
do that once , and then you learn the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnically things .
you feel , that &apos;s the real truth behind the origin .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about the fire .
he &apos;s interested in fire .
but there are no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , just the fire department .
now , a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
that &apos;s where he signed up .
and then , you don &apos;t say to your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere , and you &apos;re happy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we are in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can only do when they &apos;re fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this proposition that in the inside of the bub already knew that it was actually related to the fire , but that it can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious , which jumps right away without you being able to do anything about it , and the things that you know that you look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
so it &apos;s just the words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know that when we talk about it , the social relations are very delicate .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can go through images and have this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that should work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
after what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the ones that we actually know in the unconscious that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
i want to present to you two , maybe three examples .
the first example requires what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this spiritual , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not a stopp of material , material nature .
and if you have people who are in front of you , who are a strong belief that you have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that you &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as if the soul were such a hostile framework about you , not from matter , not from meat and blood , a kind of stone , to the earth , devastating , devastating , unimportant , unknown .
but the spatial structure of the images is actually important here .
and from that soul , you now think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called in the latin , the air tunnel .
and when that air smoke comes across the human being , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is necessarily present to our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of your eyes , you understand the logic that we &apos;re experiencing this happiness to be able to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you still know three sentences from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have stuck these images together so that they can see the real space where these images that were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things have been spatially related to each other .
that &apos;s the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie in a way that you can just get this logic wrong .
in that three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim sound , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted it in particular here .
a third sentence that appears instantly in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say , who doesn &apos;t have a soul , who &apos;s dead , and can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and this is where you feel it .
this is where this logic comes out in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say , the canvas is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the canvas is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are some that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deception feels right away , and you can do something about it .
it &apos;s a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and presented .
because actually , we have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic , which is easy to use , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , photosynth technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious if you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the newspapers .
you have to think of another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy .
this has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar who was called johannes buridanus , and after that , the burian esel is named .
the burian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same thing in the middle between two big hairs , he hungs .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so forth .
because he doesn &apos;t know what the haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how the natural things are presented .
the same forces with opposite signs resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
it &apos;s only when you take another example , so if you make the haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing to do .
automatically , he &apos;s walking to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re somehow driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , you also have the feeling that there must be something like free .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar who &apos;s called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who happened just in the computer with images of flickr . just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on . each of these orange cone represents an image that &apos;s been discovered as a model .
now we can create the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he &apos;s not free .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day , find that in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of willingness can &apos;t be drawn to accountability for his actions and claims , and therefore it &apos;s inadequate .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to first prove that there &apos;s something like freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of preceding is wrong , as if , of course , you would have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything , and most importantly , if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , if you meet a human being that you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all spatially related to each other .
you &apos;re not allowed to call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
you say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one that , of course , there are such predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while they &apos;re busy making sense that they can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is quite happy .
he &apos;s very happy about this because he deceived them .
because he put them on a trap where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the form of shifting the evidence burden , they experience the brilliance of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a way to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember your self-lie that way .
thank you for your attention .
yes , good afternoon .
i was allowed to ask lilly if i could mention it .
she &apos;s one of the perpetrators here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk and give my idea to it .
i have to say , you know , you got it , it was hard to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might like to introduce my island project that i &apos;m trying to introduce you to .
but of course , it &apos;s the sum of many , many ideas .
i probably belong , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad oil image , because i &apos;ve already begun to study machine construction in carlsruhe , technical college , and today it &apos;s called , i think , kit .
and then i was struck by berlin in the middle of the eighth years , because i wanted to make renewables , and it didn &apos;t leave me alone .
you know , i never believed that i was going to work at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
they were all called kfa at the time , which was jewish called kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but something like a doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which sort of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineer .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium columa man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
however , in the &apos; 80s , it wasn &apos;t like that .
there was just the fact that there was self-managed alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in cross in the courtyard , where you suspected the evil .
it was a place of terrorism , but that was called fuzzy and made wind and solar , and that &apos;s where i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what was said today , i &apos;m very touched by , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if a nope said no , it was a vetoprinzip , and it was completely crashed , and i had a little bit of a doubt for 10 years , whether i was really wasting my great engineering college , maybe , to a kind of a wasteful thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues used to talk to him , you put out the money to the window in your child .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and this was really , really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of ne phase , and you just dipped into a picture where i wondered , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow , which was still , you know , basic wage , collectively , if that was really the great thing .
and then i did it up to six and a half years old , and then together with friends , i became a co-founder of the company solon , which then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with spin-off q-cells .
a huge story of success , but also , of course , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two-thousand-six , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next issue of the future , and that is , i think , my behavior and our behavior , it &apos;s going to be crazy again , and that &apos;s going to start again with people saying , what &apos;s the rubbish , that &apos;s not going to go , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how do you get a hundred percent renewable ?
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them all being flipped together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple crazy story , where could you make sense of a memory today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a fifteen percent renewables today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have any more ?
it &apos;s just not technologically possible .
when they build more wind power , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershof our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people on this island have .
the question was simple , calculated that was two thousand , started the first contacts with the island , but just run it through .
how big would you have to be , in fact , a battery like this , so you could get an island like 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go on a slide again .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical performance are added to the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered in faces , and so on .
the world &apos;s energy hunger , which is happening , is deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course , always three of these , two of them are always waited .
yeah , this is how you see the load down there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar plant , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only feed in small amounts here .
our goal was just to say , okay .
the diesel is going to be back-up , and the wind , the sun , is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger proportion .
somewhere here are a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , energy per year , not performance at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that the renewables , in a way , can take over the whole web .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in any way here .
no one in the world has done that .
this is in a small style , so you can also use your rasizer in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing research in adlershard ?
this is already going on .
but if you want to put together several of these interfaces , and they want to build a net , it becomes extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to go down to 70 to 20 percent renewable , and then there &apos;s the rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , and that &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , that you &apos;re going to make it out of batteries .
this will definitely be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , it will be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , who was really recorded .
you have to go to a season memory , and you have winter summer , and you don &apos;t just have a day night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and wind and sun and the load simulated and came to the conclusion , a very exciting outcome , that you can get out of the conventional system , which takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about four and a half cents a pound .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , that &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would all have to be done ?
i negotiated with investors , looking for new social scientists .
we were only five people then to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is , in a sense , the conventional system , the green system is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we don &apos;t go through 20 percent with this , and we don &apos;t go through a price increase on the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the electric company on the island , we think that &apos;s great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t think you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin where , in a way , we can map the electrical conditions of the island at the scale of one in three very precisely .
that means we were looking for the world &apos;s largest battery .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in which case from japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s you can see , it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it &apos;s got a megawatt power , and it can do that for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we &apos;ve got , sort of , simulating technology out of it .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate the same size that it &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , to actually do the full dynamic behavior of this grid , so in the hall it looks like this now , in the back , there &apos;s the diesel , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s the whole thing that we &apos;re simulating the web with .
and over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture can find access to the material world .
all these photographs are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see the one again here , again , the diesel , again , all the individual aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since the last two thousand years was the hall was finished , until now , two thousand , almost everything that was between the single system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery maker , we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the subject of the battery and the theme of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate , of course , to the battery , you have to be able to communicate on the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of the matter is that , basically , on this island today , you can do everything that &apos;s going to be done with problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to be moving back and forth at the moment , energy , how is it going to be done , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent accurate energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electrical mobility on the island , ask rumbling , can you manage the burden ?
that means that if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without memory .
they get a model that comes from all over the earth .
you can do it through &quot; n smart-grid , &quot; and you can do it by exposing the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , hear the percentage , but you will never be able to completely disseminate on memory .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have that rotating mass that causes a certain inertia on the web .
and our european compound network is basically just made up of noisy masses of large power plants , wherever the wave is all around europe .
we look in this web , we see the fifty hertz , and if it becomes nine , ninety-four commercial hertz , we start to make a couple of valves , then a little bit of merh steam goes in again , then we come back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , this is incredibly compelling .
if you tear this down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the sequel of stephen lawlers &apos;s work on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds off with this big battery .
and then you can see what enormous speed opportunity there is .
and the message is , we need to get rid of these rotating masses , if we want to get our goals 20 , 20 , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get to that .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply called the power plant running to keep the frequency .
yes , it &apos;s a huge debate right now , to build the coal power plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gasturbines , because it &apos;s not possible .
and we &apos;re just trying to make the point that you can disseminate the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also bringing electrochemical storage to the grid .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now .
and this is something that , because of the complexity that people use it , people are growing and whose benefit for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and then , for that purpose , people always come and look at our subjects on this , sort of at our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take a piece of far future .
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
if you don &apos;t , you know , it &apos;s insane , child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is the model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity for electrochemical storage around the world .
very simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the beauty is that i &apos;ve actually experienced in the last two years now that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed with metadata , which has given in to another person .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , also to climb 10 megawatt-battery to the german net .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so , from that point of view , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and from that defense position to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanes , they &apos;re doing autark , they have their own little net , they have nothing to do with our compound .
the question is , quite simply , if you make yourself completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out somewhere in the world and brought to them , you &apos;re an island .
then they only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where they live .
and that &apos;s kind of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful for cradle-to-cradle that they said they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we get , the talk of premium cola , that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and all right , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little bit crazy and have a vision .
if someone has been struggling and labeled all these sacred and shared who you are , then my photo of the notre dam cathedral will suddenly be enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which use photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of overwhelming social experience using other providers .
and you really have to be pretty tough with this , but i think it &apos;s possible .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of los angeles times , went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos;s article , a book later , which was filmed again , with robert downey junior as steve lopez and jamie foxx as nathaniel anthony ayers , the contractor who studied at the juilliard-conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically ended early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , had a breakdown , and 30 years later he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend reading steves &apos; book , or looking at the movie , so you can understand not only the wonderful interconnectedness that came out of these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was ultimately the instrument , if that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel off the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and came behind the stage to imagine me .
he spoke in a very hot and social note about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , all of this is the vast virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that were not just preserved by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he was already treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , which are sometimes so bad , and he goes around for days in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and torture of his own mind .
and just like this , in a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this error flickers in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not because of it , but i was afraid that i could lose it , that he could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about audio and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gatekeepers .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathanick &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniel &apos;s manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some clips of violin concert , and then asked me to finish them : mendelsson , tschaikovski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that , not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i know only about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a lover , educated , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing state .
. do i understand them right ? their software enables that at a certain point , in the next few years , all the images that someone in the world is using are basically linked together ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that &apos;s deep inside of us all , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to really shape .
and the reality of that expression reaches us all , and moves , inspired and united .
so what nathaniel did , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the relief power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and paid him attention .
and i will always play with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist , unfortunately .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
that first one , that was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , delicious , good consistency , sustainable , a best plate on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the ceo of the company called and asked if i could talk about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want to , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem has become for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menus ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the swordfish , they have collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so i think or evil aquaculture , fishery building , will be part of our future .
many arguments against it . fishing plants are polluting the environment , most of them , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got 15 to one food processing .
that means that 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don &apos;t .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for building so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollute the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we are so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one thing ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put it up .
and that evening , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know that . he &apos;s going to ask .
now , i was telephones with a couple of people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until finally i was telephone with the leading biologist .
as if you do a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what that is .
let &apos;s also call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , i swear to god who &apos;s been tailing for chicken after this conversation .
this second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way in which , the better you know your fish , you love the more fish .
i ate it first in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s sort of wired us up .
he came up with the table with a bright , almost shining white color .
then the scale of the semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it up .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so well after it was cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand underneath .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew flesh cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the land .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t do that , not economically .
and it was an ecologically disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is what many birds are for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally put the lever around .
instead of pushing out the water , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- bark , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and in the process , miguel and his company completely reversed the environmental destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this before .
they stare out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see is cursed channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , fighting through the wetlands , and i &apos;m checking and sweating , having matsch up to my knees , and miguel gives a biology lecture in quiet .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book , which i hope is in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he is highlighting a rare trajectory .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more of the rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , which was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the evening .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so well ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , young , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
now , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-cleaning .
there &apos;s no food .
and of these 6,000 languages today , while we &apos;re sitting here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
i later went around on this site with miguel the day , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had requested a shift in time .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you bad your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official faith of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
now , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , were over 250 different ways .
it &apos;s now the largest and one of the most important private avian reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensive , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the more the gut is the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public good of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success at the health of its predators .
a fish lift , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos of the first place shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed 240 kilometers away in a city , where the soil surface is better for the nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 miles .
they do that because they can follow the striked white line of the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 kilometers to the farm and then fly 240 miles back in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , a vital premise for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . they do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this sweeping , coated taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t shrink to fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet , and it tasted as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved throughout evolution to seek out uncertainty . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any incarceration . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success on the success of its predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that has no incarceration , he &apos;s undergoing tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads to all the things that rivers now tend to lead with them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it struggled through the system , and this one is leaving the water cleaner than the way it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals , not just a farm that measures their success at the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for those fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it decreases in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and you should do that , because that love story , however romantic , is also an enlightenment .
you could say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoying . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crawling inequalities in the distribution , not the total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it has been the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pests in monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a commercial in the field , a commercial that quickly ecological capital is allowing that same production .
this is not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our cornchamber is now threatened , not because of decreasing ingredients , but because of degrading resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deep in our water supply , that it wouldn &apos;t make any sense to question it .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it &apos;s never produced anything really good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that restore instead of using , businesses that grow extensively , instead of just intensive , farmers who are not just producers , but experts in relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are the people who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to leave you with one thing today , it &apos;s that the total of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of its parts and instead of thinking about information overlap , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns exist , and we see trends that wouldn &apos;t have become visible otherwise .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram based on age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see a different pattern that &apos;s going on .
and that &apos;s because in the middle section here , people are most active , and they &apos;re most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that cycles and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we go on and we sort of age , say , 40 years or more , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and who &apos;s continuing to see that this is particularly true for men .
so you realize that looking at information and data in this way , it &apos;s very much reminiscent of swimming in a vivid information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here are the front images of every single &quot; sports illustrated &quot; that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it in your rooms after my talk .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to infants anymore , which means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually already dead .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
you can jump directly to a certain output .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click in here , and i show all the expenses that lance armstrong talks about .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at it all with bike driving ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to make the point .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look for it , or you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s a little bit in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now , i want to take this idea a little bit further with something like a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediasites and we &apos;ve reduced them to a small summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipedias .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i chose government , i realize that the wikipediaceans who are most reporting time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipedias .
this is just to recognize when you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at a particular summary , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see everybody together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essions that you could buy to make a large number of their own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , and some of them come from science . some of them , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss , and one comes from the music sector .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from page to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump directly to a specific section .
so this is important because , just by looking at websites in this way , you can look at the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in my course in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this .
and i can sort of bring back anything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past , and here , i &apos;m looking for nepotistic , here for bing , or live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the site and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the databases .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the escape of information surplus .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and by doing so we can see patterns that would have remained otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then that data trap , maybe a new source of information will make sense .
and then they go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- loudspeakers , cd-player , a tape player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereos .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from that .
and if we know , then maybe we can even pull wisdom out of it .
so i stop there , thank you very much .
i grew up with a wooden portion of science fiction .
in my school years , i drove to school with the bus , one hour every day .
and my nose always stuck in a book , a science-fiction book , which unleashed my thoughts in other worlds , and in a narrative way satisfied my deep , unsatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also showed that if i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests and &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and beetles and dough water , and look at it all and under the microscope .
i was absolutely enthusiastic , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and explore the boundaries of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can put 6.5 million different stereo plants together from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of miracles that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science-fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there were neither video games nor this overlap with computer-generated movies nor all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my reaction was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was constantly caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook .
creativity had to kind of get out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as what i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself discourage of that .
i annoyed my father until finally he had found a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my trading line in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years since now , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of this in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat oceans , is as rich as fascinating as we really can &apos;t imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know any boundaries , as opposed to our own , bright human imagination .
until today , i feel the most profound awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean stops , with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i was an adult , when i picked a profession , it was the filmmaking .
this seemed the best way to tell stories to my inner urge , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i always drew comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories . it fit together .
of course , the stories i chose were from the science-fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i could connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone that you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took on computer-generated animation , cg , back .
what came out of this was the first computer-generated software surface-figure that was ever seen in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in money , and he was just playing his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
arthur clarke &apos;s law is , famously , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , it &apos;s got to be involved in the movie art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy out of liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would come about .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , there was a whole new world , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and crew designer at that time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to jump over the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
and then we did that , and we got a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that we had started in the crew and the design , which is what we actually started the company , too slowly .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to push the measurement into visual effects and computer-generated effects in all new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made by cg , and the main characters should be all cg , and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was pretty much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we &apos;re not yet able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that was going on .
i sold this as a &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love movie of epic extent , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i really wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , to be one of the last of your people who speak your language , not having a way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
and a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
i convinced them , though , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
this is hugely important . it &apos;s a good marketer . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but that goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
and we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , and looked at the real titanic through a bull eye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and shell and all kinds of things .
and it occurred to me how much of this deep sea level , a space mission .
well , they were also highly technical , and they needed extensive planning .
you go into this capsule , and then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like i &apos;m in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was actually obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that had to do with curiosity and science . it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect for , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and that science had found , at the time , when we saw them , no words .
so that really flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started to dive into &quot; bismarck , &quot; and we explored them with robotics .
we went back to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you had no means for it . so we developed the technology that we needed .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at plans that look a lot like this breeding here , and i know that once the tape has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just talking about it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically present within the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal shape of a déju vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i was bowing around a corner , i always knew what was going to appear in the light cone of the vehicle , because i was walking over the movie set for months when we were making the movie .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very , very strange experience .
and she made me realize this telepresence experience that you could use these robotic avatars and make your own consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really incredibly profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all kinds of post-human-censors that i can think of as a science-fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we saw down there , for example , these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are sort of alien , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playful , wet hair trimmer and crème brème fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degree centigrade , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was , again , the science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space , and who are involved with nasa , and they &apos;re sitting in the nasa expert advice , and they &apos;re planning to do right space missions , and they &apos;re going to russia , and they &apos;re going through the mission of biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going to go around , and they &apos;re going to go to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , it was that i took space scientists with us into the deep sea .
i took them and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually did science , more specifically , space science .
so the circle between my existence was a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business yet , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you think a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of that ? &quot;
these silly movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re just playing the cost of production . it &apos;s not a lane .
everybody thinks i &apos;d gone away between titanic and avatar and celebrated the nails somewhere on a towel on the beach .
i made all these films , these documentary movies , for a very small audience .
no glory , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that exists . you do it for the explorer &apos;s sake , and because of the strange connection that emerges when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all this with only 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , and sometimes we were two to three months in the back of the lake .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the awe that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to any other .
when you come back to land and you say , &quot; we &apos;ve had to do it , the fiberglass , the dilution , and the whole technology , and the difficulties , the human capacity , if you work at sea , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other thing . this is like policemen , or soldiers , who have gone through something together and know that they can never explain it to anybody .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and deserve respect in return .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood there again with a little team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
and so my way of making movies completely changed .
there were people who thought we had really taken these oceans and transported them to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle of doing my job , the actual process that changed in the end .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first one is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and your team &apos;s attention is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me an advice to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t constrain yourself .
get others to do that for you . don &apos;t do it for yourself , don &apos;t hurt yourself , but take risks for yourself . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploring , failing must be an alternative , because there it guarantees a trust .
no important endeavor that required innovation was ever taken without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with , and failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time work at the foundation is basically about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , actually more important than anyone on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years . it &apos;s too much or too little rain . things are going to change as it can &apos;t sustain its fragile environment .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , a climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important for them .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , the poverty reduction would be far more effective in energy .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progression society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in electricity , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone on earth somewhere , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an older person dies and takes the last syllables of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s halve the price -- we hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms up the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they add up the co2 that goes into temperature , and that temperature increases has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect result , that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid change , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change , and where it &apos;s going , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t enough about half or a quarter ? &quot;
and the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to go under a 30-foot bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down to zero .
well , we &apos;re releasing a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we need to create changes that are going to reduce it to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have influenced it at all , and we have to go from rapid increase to decrease and to zero reduction .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services that each person uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every single factor , and let &apos;s think about how we get this to zero .
probably one of those numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it goes to nine billion . it goes to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce 10 to 15 percent , but right now we &apos;re seeing a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things , and poverty reduction means making these services accessible to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that that number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to deny and use less , but on average , that number will rise every year and double more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and they read their school assignments under the street light .
now , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through different types of cars , through new ways in the building of the house , there are many services where some of the services in energy are decreased by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 56,000 -- 800 : 58,000 , or air traffic , the playground is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and it &apos;s just not enough !
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get this to zero ?
b has these benefits and these risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing technique for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , if i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
normally there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually you &apos;re just wrong , and some people don &apos;t come , others .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that letting fireflies release would be my contribution to the environment here , this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told that they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and these risks .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or two , that have an unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions in which people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i spent time , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may be contributing to a moderate contribution , and if they &apos;re doing better than i expect , that would be great , but my core point here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up on any of them , because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to get all the co2 that comes out of the artery after burning , capturing under pressure and then storing somewhere and hoping it &apos;s going to stay there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level , 80 percent level , but 100 percent of it will be very difficult . and getting an agreement for the charging of co2 is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the storage question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times bigger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so that &apos;s a hard nose .
next , nuclear power .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high , and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three out of five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some downsides .
one is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about lots of square kilometers , thousands of times more land than a normal power plant .
also , these sources are underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day long , it doesn &apos;t appear every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t always hurt .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way of getting energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , they don &apos;t just need the technology , they need to deal with the risk that the energy from where it comes from .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show the dimension , i looked at all sorts of batteries that are made : the ones for cars , the computers , the cell phones , the flashlights , for everything , and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve done with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and what i &apos;ve found is that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches right now .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these underbroken sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get to the target ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people in the ted group who are already engaged there .
bill gross has several companies , among other things one called esolar has great solar technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i finance a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place , if we all talked only one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be canadian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear field ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you had been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there are modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that yes ! with the right way of doing materials , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can actually use the waste from today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head down , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called the &quot; traveling wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s being burned today , so it &apos;s called the uranium .
that &apos;s what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you just film ocean water cheaply and simply , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we need to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reverse its electric generation .
the other note is whether we &apos;re using the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to getting them to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reductions . the less we emitt , the lower the co2 sum will be , and therefore the temperature will be .
but actually , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even a little less important than the others that represent the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
and the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we need to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through and create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete desire for us to invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halved energy without co2 , i will find that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the trench between the long term and the short-term people will be horrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich country , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice as to show this slide .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i appealing to ?
we need to go for more research .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous funds that are being spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market fuel , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and the things that are being done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first time , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , find another billion , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first one .
as soon as the first thing is done , when it goes like promising , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
in order to understand this , it means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process up and then continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . today you have to refill the reactor , so there are lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and get things out , or get things out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it in for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they &apos;re buried without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we are reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that offers a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so , what was a problem for these reactors is what we put in our fillings , and it &apos;s dramatically reducing the waste volume during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the greatest interest to really do this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t found ourselves in a place yet , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting openness rules for everything that &apos;s called the nuclear , and there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a quick reactor , and some countries have built this , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability to really bring this into life ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then 20 years to use .
this is kind of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we have to keep in mind .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything is going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , just as those approaches work , that promoting their pilots can provide .
and it would be the best way to do it , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
so , given the great breakthroughs of possible , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : a breakthrough of energy is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they married as fast as they could , and then they had children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as one , say , a coal molecule , and that &apos;s why , if you can deal with the problems , and that &apos;s mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , it plays the potential , so the impact on the country and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what does it do ?
do we have to implement emergency efforts to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something like that .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay warming , so that we can get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating because you know that your heart surgery is going to save you .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change physicists : do you have one or two sentences for those to convince you maybe ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that shift things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you only have later on -- and that &apos;s because the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be . &quot;
today everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time remove the co2 , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i don &apos;t care that it doesn &apos;t emitt co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it , because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjorn lomborg argument that , if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , the poverty reduction , the fighting of malaria and so on , that it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
other things shouldn &apos;t suffer from that .
you get to great money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund it , and for me , this is most waste .
unless you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the drag you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful smart students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
now , his new flap is , &quot; why isn &apos;t the research going to talk about ? &quot;
he &apos;s still associated with the skeptic camp , because of his earlier stories , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will come true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman did a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter of tape , about a meter of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top of it .
and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it really seems simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it pushes people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share with you some of them .
usually most people start to orient themselves on the task .
you &apos;re talking about it , you &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re ranging around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and put spaghetti out .
they spend most of their time in the assembly of growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow and they put it gently on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy with other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a series of people who have much more uh-oh moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they produce really drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da , and the best ones are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , not only did they produce the highest towers , but they also produce the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how is this ? why ? what about these ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i get married later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , right ?
what makes children different is that they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have the ability to repair badly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with each attempt , the kids get instant feedback and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students , half of them , lawyers a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all inherent questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and secure self-amplifying geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos are a little bit above average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they become significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you realize , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of processing .
they conduct the process , they understand it .
and that team that rules and looks at the work significantly improves the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you and not getting a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now , i tried something interesting .
i thought , let &apos;s take the poker effort in a moment .
so i offered a $ 10,000 software prize for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competition has a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so the same bad team became one under the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually invest in creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because , frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl demonstrated , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- to the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic position , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
you find crazy examples from all over the world , how people are optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a compelling sport .
it requires that we all focus our senses on the task , and we use our thinking optimal , like our feelings and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; moment to a &quot; ta-da . &quot;
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about where the wirelesslan works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go into the past , you can go into the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go into the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then suddenly you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you , because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because there are opportunities on this planet that are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that you &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re going to do : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there &apos;s never been a time before like this .
my great-grandparents died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work again and again and again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . this is an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . the smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we &apos;ve forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have threatened only one generation ago , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphar , root , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are the success of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying to do things is to see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all the good news , because there are some other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all our achievements , one billion people in the world go to bed every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world thoroughly .
drinking water , urgent land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we &apos;re going to disappear .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we look at our child as a football game mutilates , we &apos;re also wondering , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think we can .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world with energy that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really think that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder thinking .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as badly as we are now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment , to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve been doing these things more violent , to more fronts than we are now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion ; even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i answer this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re wrong with ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; innocence , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article on vaccine for the new yorker , a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , to resistance , to what was the most effective thing in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i do , i wrote an article and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , only bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were in a certain way rather than a random way of pushing around a handle on nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly your experience of football play is very different than it would have been .
but , you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we submit , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s be honest .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship with progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it twenty-one .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with little demonstrations about this : &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call some names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get the evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say this for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen before , and hopefully never see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masers , mumps , and root vaccine .
very scary .
and there were some studies done to see if that was true .
hourly studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter , because we believe in anecdotes , we think what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not all was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody have masses here ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 an hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can push it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never are the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst minds .
no fear , no torture , no child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
not so much of the guy in the middle .
so today , i &apos;d like to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try and make you understand what has actually been lost .
and the question is , are these good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotaviral vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop complaining .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids are going to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you keep on taking them , you go back to the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we now have masses in this country .
and that &apos;s going to get worse , and pretty soon kids are going to die again , because that &apos;s just one question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little bit shrimp . &quot;
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . absolutely not .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about this , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have a child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos came to an airplane this morning and is flying to los angeles , and right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands , and he rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you jump .
i know they did that because half of americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t make any difference how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that instead of liberating paralysis .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishing cold and soul to ourselves that can afford it .
so we run away from that , and where do we go ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what are you doing ? let people do what you want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to even decide .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to adopt the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer jellyfish , who &apos;s going to treat his patients with caffe-type procedures .
if you go on this path , where beliefs and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they come to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can brake the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is plagued worse than any other one of these diseases .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study on investing in volunteer aging .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch , every rose flour , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarines in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of them worked and some of them didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more precise , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and that stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all of this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid of a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from blooming .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we are right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they provide 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees than if they were only offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this stuff in it .
and then people could eat that , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say about this is : why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now , there are some of us who are kind of forgotten that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose , to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our harren on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do the same way that we &apos;ve been guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and of course , tomorrow never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
at the moment it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we need to have these conversations , and we need to think , but when we get into the time machine , and we go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , as &quot; a deception that becomes real if somebody believes only enough of it . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it &apos;s also so hard to make decisions that they miss big investments in their employers .
a deception becomes something real , because somebody perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s at least since the 1950s in every magic book for children .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;m going to explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study ; my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my hand that way .
i &apos;m going to push my sleeve back .
by not participating , they spend up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to multiply their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist right here .
so you can see , in this way , that no one is moving anything at any time , and as long as i &apos;m pressing here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually sitting so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick to do .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing disappears or comes out of my sleeve , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s really the secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger here , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who had no childhood .
so , he &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count it one , one , two , three , but it sees it as a group .
but that &apos;s not really what it &apos;s about now , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my time finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year or so ago , i read a study that really took me off .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so it was an amazing thing for me .
it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you give the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , you change into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you shape a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really made me freak out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any shape .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
also , the dosage matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics now . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape matters .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach out to the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an effective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . this is much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that makes us a stronger impact .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception and make it look real .
we know from this study that you have to reach out to the needle when it &apos;s to go to the thing .
this is a five-inch couch needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp . and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up with less satisfaction than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
so i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to pull it through , until it got out on the other side .
if you get evil -- if you fall slightly in power -- i showed this to some friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman nearly became powerful .
so i &apos;m proposing , if you &apos;re going to get evil quickly , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to make the first hot part in the back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also look away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my meat starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little einich .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , it &apos;s like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
there we go .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , can you ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself by the skin just to give us a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
take , for example , this child of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically they came up with the milky river from the east in the belly .
one of them is determined by the great selection of different salatdressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salt ressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what &apos;s happened in this image is that you regret the decision , and that regret is negative on the happiness that you &apos;ve had of your choice , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my meat , and i can turn that around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see this on video later , will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , it would be -- you see , here &apos;s a hole , and if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze some blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take out the needle .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing that is disappointing to the choice you make .
but i think , in this frame here and the intention of doing something real out of deception , i &apos;m just going to let the needle in there and go off the stage like this .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up after about 40 , and there &apos;s been a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of luck coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive traps .
second , what economists call oppertunnel costs .
this is true for layman who think about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as confused as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a resistance to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain significance that we could limit to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or being happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning saying how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it to .
and then he added in , really quite emotionally , which has ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he had stayed with a memory , and the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present , able to experience the past , but basically only the present .
it &apos;s the inherent self that the doctor is pressing -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt if i &apos;m going to touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memorable self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives you &apos;ve chosen .
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and changing the two is part of the consensus of happiness .
now , the remembering self is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make ourselves tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that what we need to keep from our experiences is a story .
and let them start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who are undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful today , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who has suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had , patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut mirrors were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is that clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the very end of it . it &apos;s a terrible story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the perspective of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical trials , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the experience of patient a is worse at it , and you &apos;ve done that the memory itself of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a better story about his experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory gives us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
what &apos;s a story about is breakthroughs , major moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the dominant end .
well , the heritage itself lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life , and in one month there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , somehow , you get the impression that you should count , that what happens during those moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we would use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory of ourselves .
so we have the remembering self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first week , then the second week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation , because there &apos;s no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that separates a memorable self from a living self , and time has very little impact on that story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one who makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , then the one who chooses the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
we don &apos;t actually choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as the previous memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory itself , and you can think of yourself as one that sort of draws the living self through experiences that don &apos;t need the living itself .
i think the impression that if we make vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively distinguished between the colors of blue and green , because the celestial scene is equal to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think about a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i had ever had , and i think quite often about it in terms of how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably had my memories of this three-week journey , which i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be an inconsistency .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you choose this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you &apos;ll get an answer , and if you think about memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two types of self are two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory self , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or delighted the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to screw up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m one of a lot of researchers about well-being that have long screwed the exploration of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started learning about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has put their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their own living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know a little bit about what determines the happiness of self .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mostly content with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you &apos;ll end up doing very different things .
oppertune costs down the happiness that we get from our selection , even though what we chose is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t think clearly about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are not going to get the right answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if they live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who are moving to california , hoping to be happier .
now , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more possibilities there are for choice , the more attractive features of that choice are given into the oppertune cost .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we phone a couple of weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup survey .
is that something that you can let us participate in , because you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result we &apos;ve found in the gallup survey is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that , under an income of 60,000 dollars a year for americans , and that &apos;s a very big sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they get more and less happy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw so flat lines .
what happens is , obviously , money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money is certainly miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the happier you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american pursuit , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it all seems to be on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , would take the country a finance like serious and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but it &apos;s happening in the united kingdom right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are about to recognize that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life grades , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different from how you think and whether you think about the memory itself or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
now , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or at least the most interesting political debate for the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as to save it in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
now we spend three billion hours a week playing online .
but one important thing that he does is , whoever you choose to do one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute for the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time it took is at 21 billion hours of play a week .
now , this may seem a little bit disastrous , so i repeat it , so that if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try and play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical for the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit scared , but also external concentration , deeply immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here , the eyes drawn up , and the mouth are a sign of optimism . the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . prima . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so exquisitely positive that they didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they do , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of something like this . that &apos;s an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem solvers all over the world , when we &apos;re attacking the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the verge of any epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we tend to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yes ? ok .
this is me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. why we &apos;re better in games than we are in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we &apos;re reaching more in game worlds . i mean good in the context of motivation to do something meaningful , inspired by collaboration with each other .
this hit me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think that many of us are transforming into our best version at any given time and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem as long as you need , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel overwhelmed . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , and they just don &apos;t exist in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from the games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victory possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always on the edge of their skills , so they have to work on it , but there &apos;s no unemployment in world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and twist . there &apos;s always a very important thing to do .
and there &apos;s lots of employees .
wherever they go , hundreds of thousands of people working with them to close their epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingertips , you &apos;re ready to have employees .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a kind , and they bought them , and they did poorly fit , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they had carried them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one , and plus-one crazy idea , plus-20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like the world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying at any given time on the edge of an epic victory that we prefer to spend all of our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years trying to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily something bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to rise .
so i went to buy new jeans after many years of the old wearing , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing with games , it just makes sense when you keep the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but it turns out , because it turns out , using all this time on play , we actually change what we &apos;re able to do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , heart-to-heart creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i think .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a carnegie mellon university researcher , the average young person from today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the accurate overall thing they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the degree of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education , where young people are learning what it means to be a good player , like anything else they &apos;re learning in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , lightly loving or extensive ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a random subject to the 21st year , we will be mastering in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a complete generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could find that out , we would have sort of unprecedented human potential .
so many people now in the world , who spend at least one hour a day playing online games .
these are our master-players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good in &quot; something . &quot;
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to wash buttons or clothes ? stone or acid ?
the game industry develops consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world , particularly in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have a total of 1.5 billion players .
so i started to think about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , imagine that as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying to do it , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of dense social nets .
do you want jeans with holes ?
there are a lot of interesting studies that show that we like people more after we played with them , even when they defeated us .
the reason for this is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and stay with us until the end of the game .
so the interaction allows the growth of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or don &apos;t do anything .
we know that we work as human beings optimally when we do hard , important work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right task .
do you want to cut way down , cookie , blah blah blah ... &quot; and so on he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of an awe missions of planetary extent .
here &apos;s a background formation to put that in the right light , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve collected more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome , and players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischief , six or seven languages , you never hear somebody who &apos;s learning a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness more than a mass emigration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so it &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can tap into games of stronger social ties than they can in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical at the moment that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll agree first , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that comes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes , from sheep &apos;s need . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there was sheep needed .
and these were , in a way , the first of people developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story . the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games were invented , more specific games , in the kingdom , lydics during famine .
i had it better . all this choice allowed me to have it better .
there was such a famine , supposedly , that the king of lydics decided to be a crazy idea .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surrounded us with satisfying , happy productivity , that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then , the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating on a day and playing the next day .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re using games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we use games to avoid anything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years of famine didn &apos;t get any better , so the king decided to make a last game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break down to an epic adventure .
they left lydics and they went looking for a new home , and they left just as many people as there was food to survive , and they were looking for an area where they could thrive .
it sounds crazy , right ?
but recent dna evidence shows that the etrussians who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing games by whispering into games for 18 years , and then having this insight and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i &apos;m going to take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should be overcoming that half of us spend an hour a day playing until we &apos;ve solved the real world problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve the real world problems in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question that i &apos;ve done in the last few years at the institute for the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what makes a good few jeans go up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then empowering people to implement this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victory , and we give people the opportunity to achieve it .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try to create people &apos;s epic victory in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when there was only one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been with them for the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a changing experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure to go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained the habits in the game .
so for the next world game , we set ourselves a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game superstruct at the institute for the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we created almost like a jerry bruckheimer movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream team . you have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strands , and only together you can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody &apos;s in the dream team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march three , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you close the game , from the world bank , you get the award of social change , in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn how to redesign social .
we have a comic book on this . we have &quot; level up &quot; for local understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining your own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to finish .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to tap tight social networks , urgency optimism and desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play important games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;re going to design and play with me these games .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world-changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something i noticed writing a few months ago for italian wired article .
i &apos;ve always been gripping my synonymous dictionary , but i was ready to work on the text , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never been looking at the word &quot; disabled &quot; in my life .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , devastated , mutilated , cranked , lahm , disconnected , served , weakened , impotent , kastrated , paralyzed , handicapped senil , old age , pulled out of traffic , refined , done , broken , counted , injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend , and i had to laugh , it worked so ridiculous , but i only came to &quot; oriented , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t go on , and i had to stop reading and collect me first after this flooding , and the associated emotional shock .
of course , this was a balanced , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s when i was starting elementary school , and started to build and shape my self-image outside my family , also in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how well these possibilities will be .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life cannot be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m going to celebrate for the odds and the adventures i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expected me to find a more appealing post here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms shook me &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about is also manifest itself .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
even a human being eight years old could be enough to constrain them and overcome ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open you doors ?
a man who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
he &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . a italo american whose name , as you can think , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly . so he &apos;s always called dr. p. .
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for working with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual exercises , seemingly , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything else . i hated them . i hated them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally , without success .
and one day he watched me do one of my exercises -- these practices were just tiring and graceless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day one of these benches .
no one in the world of marketing knows this because , if you did , you would all not know what this is about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
of course , this was just a simple trick by dr. p. so i do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the prospect that there was a five-year-old girl in the hospital station in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as a nature of strong , powerful and atlethal human being .
this is just one example of many ways that adults in positions of power can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but like the already quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t let us imagine what we would all wish : to allow anyone to see themselves as powerful people .
our language indicates the social change that has been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
from the medical point of view , of course , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and to evolve across the limits that they &apos;ve set their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , allowing people to come up with their own identity in a way , and to orient themselves around the world .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever that there has been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence never fits for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with adversity lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on having a challenge , without being coined by the experience associated with it , as if my life had been so successful because i could extend the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people would perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we are changing . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to envelope in order to deal with our lives better .
adolescence is just part of our lives .
and i tend to think of adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s with me all the time .
and i don &apos;t want to make any impact , or the harsh of the fight of a human .
there are challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and every person is going to deal with it differently , but the question is not whether or not we &apos;re going to deal with adversity , but how do we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fate strikes , but also preparing them to do well .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it was better than anything that was worse than anything that was worse , it was possible for people to experience that was a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things : to one , the medical fact , to be amputated and to the other , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world constantly means that they can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people we care about and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical projections , or even to make a prediction about the quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention that we don &apos;t actually make the ground for somebody to be disabled .
maybe the current concept that &apos;s just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair it , for each one of them , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t quite treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive and recognize all its forces and its possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you might need to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we need to look beyond the patology and focus on all of the human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great ingenuity of invention .
we should not degrade or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we turn them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the odds .
i think i &apos;m more likely to be aware that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embracing them , to pack them on the shelf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even to dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfect expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of widespread as something natural , coherent and useful , and so we don &apos;t feel so badly about their presence anymore .
this year , we celebrate the 200th birthday of charles darwin and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed to something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its species survive , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can adapt best to change .
from conflicts , creativity emerges .
not only from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and customization are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly the sense of adversity , the sense of the self , the sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can create a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
they &apos;re never going to be very surprising , because their expectations , my expectations , are domestic .
maybe we can see adversity as a change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage that we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . the typical . but not the normal . and would you really want to know this poor , gray person , if there really were you ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could unlock this paradigm of normality against another possibility , or strength , to even formulate , a little bit more dangerous , so we can unleash the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen found that we have always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , older people and people have contributed with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the experience of survival of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they &apos;ve all come from -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up to a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- which i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man that i only knew from telling my mother about this day , because , of course , i came to late to my birthday two weeks .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents did not know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without orbital legs , and my feet had set up after them , and i had just a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bridge , this stranger had to bring the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
i really found that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i had won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i was in the paperwork with the peers at the parade , whether i had invented my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he used those clips to teach his students , medical students from hahneman medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be for the quality of life of a human .
and dr. kean kept saying , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t always get anything else , and even if they only get a little bit of support , if you leave kids alone , then kids can do a lot of things . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how people deal with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prostheses against legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe this change could also happen , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who have constrained me or wanted to overcome me an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to them how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommendable -- if you can do that , and you open a door for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means making something that is in one thing is to tickle the potential .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who had been peaceful for the first time in 1958 .
but it &apos;s not always a bad thing to do .
again , what kind of potential do we want to do ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and at the time , gymnasia was transformed into big schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided by grades .
and the a students get checked harder , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time , they gave students a &quot; sufficient &quot; note &quot; very good , &quot; and they were told they were street that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote in .
and of course , it breaks you to hear the heart that the reverse student was told that they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- except for the students who had failed school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t admitted .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad seating jean , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-size-fits-all , and the students are sufficient , and they also taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no more hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human mind to continue to hope , to find ourselves and other people around us beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really empower our forces .
when a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and a new existence .
i want to end with a poem that was written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandments , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he just says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
when hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has always been looking for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
what would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see you .
a couple . probably about as many creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been an ongoing subject here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you a doctor &apos;s view of the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology does not make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the proof of biological evolution , that would be a very good moment to turn off your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing else is going to make sense of you in the course of this talk .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it for others , or is it for us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing species on the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we are quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , in large part , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can use this and direct the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically different from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that every one of us in our gut leads more bacteria than it leads cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , think , if antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish without any effort on their side .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping to digestive food , and they &apos;re protecting it against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in the form of a species ?
or are we determined to become something else -- something that may even be better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and the human life , a small notation quote .
that &apos;s what we were .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope d hatred it to you .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most ways , the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is continued in both daughter cells .
but at the time that multicellular organisms began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes essential .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies is at the same time as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubts .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who was performing his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel room door .
i think a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautiful , beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him , and she says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
and i came to the realization that i was working as a doctor , which was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the continuation of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the conceit is that we are generally better , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i were designed like boxes to send the genetic questioning into the next stage of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to reach immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the basis of the ocean , there are bacteria that are thermophil , and by doing so , the hot steam will survive , if fish were there , it would have been vacuum cooked fish , but they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does this mean when we look back at what &apos;s going on in evolution , and how we think about the space of people in evolution , and particularly how we &apos;re looking forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contacts tried and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached some kind of balance .
and the reason for that is that , first of all , through medicine , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and removed from the population .
and second , we as a species have configurated our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us precisely and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing us so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional way , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize planets as a species , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided of us as individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma , one that we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could we be able to do this ?
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family chooses .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to anticipate genetic adaptations that would heal and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or eliminate the reduction of the cancer risk or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than something .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in it to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 and into the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality that there &apos;s going to be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who independently developed the process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in an efficient way -- which frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblast , and through the manipulation of just four genes , the cell induced to bring it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell , potentially , is able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin produces in bacteria can make viruses that can not only be protected from themselves , but can also serve immunity for other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been built in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , removing the hemophility , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the power of a ken jennings have , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from alt style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure we missed this point for a long time at the choice to improve our common good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or your grandchildren , need to deal with .
do we use these decisions to shape a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us , rather than other of us ?
are we going to form a society of diliger and uniformers , or robuster and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions ?
for good or for evil , and sooner than you might think , these decisions will be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine now something , a portable robot that gives you a human ability , or another , that helps wheelchair users to stand up and go back .
now , as a basic question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , the thing about thinking about it . the thing that makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is the material wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they are nothing but what they do in the morning , and that gives them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is actually the real melting of man and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , which , on average , is about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the question that they should be wearing more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal cord injuries .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help to deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc now -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of you whose problem is not the big choice .
his flexible design allows you to go deep , to crawl and to perform highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re so far to imagine , with our industrial partner , this device , this new exoskeleton that year .
so it &apos;s true .
so let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people in the world who are estimated in the wheelchair .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re talking a lot about very young people with spinal cord injury , which in the flourishing time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- were hit by the destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number multiplies .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so it &apos;s been for 500 years , by the way , since he , i must say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , which suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that it hasn &apos;t been able to run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elegs .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer that &apos;s attached here on their back .
here are also batteries , the engine engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints that they move forward in this pretty smooth and very natural gait .
i was 24 years old and in the best form of a monstrous purchase tree while a ski ride paralyzed me .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went to my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you will never go back . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every five little hope out of my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn how to ski again , climb again and even drive with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have the whole potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and so annoying is steve levitt yesterday told you about how these more expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a help of a fireman in a volunteer delay the fire .
now , in our city , where volunteers were supporting a high-skill professional fire department , you have to be very early in the burn place to be able to mix with .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer in the branding place , so i had pretty good opportunities to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the accountable man and find out what our jobs would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she stood in the stroke and barefoot under a umbrella in the floating rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go into the house and save the household dog .
the dog ! i was out linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves down from the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that you don &apos;t help .
there was a lawyer or a lawyer who could now tell the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living creature , just because he was five seconds faster than i was .
well , i was the next .
the main man was waving me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , past the fire , and you &apos;ve got to get this woman some shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i had hoped to do , but i went up -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen who were quite ready at this point , to get a few shoes out of the bedroom .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey back down , where i met my enemy on the front door and the beloved dog .
we carried our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a couple of weeks later , the fireman received a letter from the households where they were thanking for the brave use of her house rescue .
one of the most estimated kindness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at a large scale , but i also see actions of the altruism and the courage of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so if i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or who are on their way there , i want to offer this memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in somebody else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
serve in a food kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us feel worse about it .
not every day will give us a chance to save the lives of a human , but every day will give us a chance to change one .
so go ahead and save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the continuity of humanity .
a place where women are leading the prescription , with sex saying hello , and the game is determining the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationships .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
if something of what enables people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have moved too little choice , it would not only improve people &apos;s lives , but it would improve our dignity .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressive .
but unfortunately , we have emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimps are led by large , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where lethal violence hasn &apos;t been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese copyright forest , and it &apos;s hard to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been raging for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto-improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is made up of more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love to play their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and she , play is essential to connecting relationships and nurturing tolerance .
and we learn the trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make sure that everybody &apos;s going to do better -- not just the poor -- because all this big selection is plaguing us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about the creation of diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos playing , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique images from the wild right away .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think it &apos;s more like it , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea wealth that you can bring new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while at the same time it &apos;s immense fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take a lot of forms , some of which are a little bit quiet , a little bit curious -- maybe to discover the astonishing again .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they do , we sometimes play alone , and we test for limits of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutrition of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future where we need to adapt to more and more challenges , through greater creativity and printing , more enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made up of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem to be appropriate , game is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primary comrades , let &apos;s hug this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at exactly the same moment , every baby -- okay .
impoverished fantasy , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
so two pairs , each baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because , if you imagine all the time the production , you won &apos;t listen to me .
imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that , in one case , the sperm has a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm has a x chromosome hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survival , both of them are light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people deal with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they deal with body fluids , with body concepts , how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought the fish knew something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who are challenging social norms .
so , for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i worked with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality occurs in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t respond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is leaving the protogonads that we all have fetal stadium to grow up .
and that &apos;s why the testicles give off at the fetal stadium testosterone .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , they found nothing , and they concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the gold glass so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen-receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s being educated as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until you get to puberty and you grow your breasts and you develop , but you don &apos;t get your period until somebody comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of having ovaries and uterus , they actually have testicles , and they actually have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something called adrenaline glands in our bodies .
if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they are in the back of our bodies .
and by the way , the ones that make androgens , which are virifying hormones .
most women , like me -- i think it &apos;s a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually speak on androgens .
we &apos;re producing androgen , and we &apos;re talking about androgens .
the result is that somebody like me actually had a brain that had more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and had an androgen-defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual standing not only in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , you can be distributed across the entire range .
another example : a few years ago , i received the call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found that he had ovaries and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side kidney hyperbladder .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase paralysis , and they lower happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he got 19 years old that he had enough medical problems , actually , because he was internally menstruating that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestestis , where ovarian tissue is wrapped around .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- from surgeons , it &apos;s often adapted to the norm , is not because it &apos;s advantageous for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they &apos;re often doing different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a particular anatomic leap is going into a certain identity .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is about having a female identity , about being a black person , supposedly having an african anatomy in terms of its own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different to us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , which are two people in a body .
where i had been experiencing most of the exciting , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the head of the world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me with the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there was no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t have a line for us between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female and intersexual ; in fact , we are the ones that pretend this line to be natural .
this is almost entirely limited to safety -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation where , as our science continues , we have to admit more that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories that made very simple arrangements to create permanent identities are much more fuzzy than we thought .
and it &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we got into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
so for example , we &apos;re looking at the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward and forward , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as a beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but the demise of being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult conversations today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve been keeping a feather under their nose , and when it moved , they haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if they didn &apos;t move , they &apos;d be buried .
but today we are in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re starting to fight the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make somebody like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i &apos;m defending people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous .
to realize that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about how democracy affects democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racially-based , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they did , i found myself looking at the malcible musical 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , from my point of view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they rejected was an anatomical concept , and they replaced it with another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years was central to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of the birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they felt that people who had political power should have these political power because of the inherited blood line from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it with a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
they niveled the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities were counting , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightened system where two things grew together .
democracy grew in , but at the same time , science grew in .
if you look at the story of founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and proven things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth rights .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , independence , they talk about nature and nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and so , in a really wonderful way , they prepared the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were aspirational about voting , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic communality is more important than the anatomical difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and egg sticks as a difference , that we should not have the right to vote , the right to have full citizenship , the right to own , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like soap truth , saying , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which are based on anatomical similarities before anatomical differences , again , successfully .
we see the same with the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we need to start to ask the question of why we sustain certain separations .
now , well-remembered , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from the anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that we think should keep in mind .
but the challenge is to try to figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it &apos;s meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been done at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she &apos;s born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and that at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday min , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , she gets all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have the right to choose to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has another biological age , just because of the time he was born .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be dressed up , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
whereas maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is making such progress in the realm of anatomy that we have to reach a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , it feels like science is doing itself .
we tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture has a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people are caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at one point , decided to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of speaking &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should judge people not for &quot; their skin color , but by the characteristic of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do it in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights to people , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserve social security rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright laboratories that are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to do the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible using fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do our thing well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like it is in iran , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he is willing to undergo a gender transformation in which case he can stay alive .
the conditions of this species don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i talked to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephones with him , and asked him why he was doing these surgeries -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be very poorly treated , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl rather than having surgery to separate it ? &quot;
the united states provides incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are , without having to change in the state .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or may have looked like , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a feminist , which is a little bit radical , which is that i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , particularly when people use group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do this with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender differences .
and one of the things that was really interesting to me is the difference between men and women in ways that they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every , but on average -- tend to give a lot of complex social relationships and caring for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and so when we think about this , we have an interesting situation to begin with .
years ago , when i was doing a graduate school , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i &apos;m still doing it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that means there could be something on average , which is why women &apos;s brains are different from male brains , which makes us more interested in very complex social relations , and more alert to the protective ones .
we &apos;ve managed to get up to about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that are here .
so where the founding fathers were very considerable to find out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we could get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , if we do democracy beyond anatomy -- think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find , in every opportunity , another colorful , crazy outfit , to wear , and also to photograph and blog recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of the second hand on fleet markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , it &apos;s simple . but if we look at all of these genes that we can eliminate one by the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my shrimp on the environment and also my wallet .
i meet all sorts of great people ; my dollars are usually for a good cause ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me shatter to my very personal search .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i &apos;ve packed for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i had tissue that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i came to palm springs .
and since you didn &apos;t hear about me , the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found some things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to tell you some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , to do nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , not only will you understand it , you will appreciate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
does it allow chemistry to make these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i looked like i &apos;m playing &quot; dressing , &quot; or i remember their seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you &apos;re looking good in something , it &apos;s almost certainly like that .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody in this audience .
they went through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailers adapt to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , this is not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this back .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to touch these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that will only wait for me if i have a little bit of love in my heart and search for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , all together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point .
this is what we call , in our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy is growing up with this image in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because something very interesting happened in formula 1 in the last few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula one , you would take your budget and put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , the information from the car , pass that information to the system , and then process it and then use it to send back that car and change things in real time while information is being collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is that real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the open .
and as computers in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- causing up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , it &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it &apos;s still increasing , and our final point would now be to an exponential curve .
beyond cities , all this perceivation and push into objects of everyday life .
this is organized by an exhibition that paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means that he ended up taking the hammer and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath it -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you say ? &quot;
well , today , our environment starts to respond to us for the first time .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with that .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it came from four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we were doing was actually using a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that is being collected from the operator anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of the cidane , the head shock .
and no matter what , italy eventually won .
now look at what happened that day , just by watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the river tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the shock .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
now , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place around co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to the party -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
very quickly another example of sensation : this is not about people , but it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes you make .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the garbage , and we start tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little bits together and correct the mistakes .
but that &apos;s what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we think that if we see every day that the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day still remains there .
and if we showed that to people , then we can drive a change in behavior .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about what we can do , and tell you the many other wonderful things that you can do with perceiving , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the concrete of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it began with a mayor question that came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water as part of architecture in public places .
and the question was , how could you connect technology , new technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was discovered at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the phi x in 174 .
they &apos;re causing something like a water curtain with the images of water .
if these images fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to make it jump , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach them , it will open up and leave them in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened by drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can actually let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , these days , when you drive down the roof , you get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building ; it &apos;s just that the architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water not to get wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night it was an even more fun one .
all the zaragoza children came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , now you had to jump without getting wet .
we made little bits , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical images , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine those images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each one of them with a little image of alternating light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of chemical and put it in a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or irregular , though , in three dimensions where what changes is the light is not the position of the images .
they can play with different kinds of ways .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or different sizes , different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of points of imagery that you can go to , and that you can move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling that goes down to form a smooth v like before .
if you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the same as we saw before .
imagine that every single one of people is being driven .
it could have a momentum that comes from people , from the movements of people or something .
i want to show you something first of all here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse to the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so that you can understand the whole movement .
you can do this all the time .
but then , once we have all the images , they can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
that &apos;s what we want to use as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
recently , i talked to the oil industry , and they said they were doing this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re doing again with people to do something and to change the environment -- almost like what we call the cloud movement , as you move a check , but with a cloud .
imagine that everybody can give a little donation to a point of view .
i think that the remarkable thing about what &apos;s happened over the last few years is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized , knowledge , and it makes it accessible through the internet .
now , for the first time -- and the obama campaign showed this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
that can , in our case , be that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to make the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually include the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is , again , a cloud of images in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with images .
you can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympia in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky , and something at the top of it , you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain peaks .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light tower at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very important about the context .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that humans are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was struck by awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were racing almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they interact with their environment in a clear way and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and cling to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse dramatic passion in a seizure .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we humans often see us .
but we wanted to go much further . we wanted to build an entire bacterial chromosome , and it had more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought we could build it in cassets of the size of the virus , which we could vary the size of the tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
while an iceberg melts , i breathe its ancient atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m going to take my pictures of these iceberg as if i &apos;m going to make portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they exist in these individual moments , and they will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you will actually witness a rolling iceberg .
here you see it now .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information on the computer , this digital information really has to be errors .
on the left-hand side you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like this , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was one mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the 1980s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; paps , my legs scribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that as a result .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided , tony -- tempt -- and to support his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked the people about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in ressing , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only when you hear about the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
ordinary people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; well , how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how they walk their fingers .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can this be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put a check out , and instead i put a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to solve it .
i committed to the place where he and his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people at grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw a laser pointer on it that only governs the negative surface .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there are follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sexes , then the words come , then the bush publishing , and finally people are actually making art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and i ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that can be used to control his eyes to control things , then we should find a way that tempt can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be brilliant . &quot;
we built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve done some things .
first of all , we &apos;ve taken the insurance out of the doors , and actually , for tempt , we &apos;ve got a device that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
this was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you &apos;re like , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy &apos;s incredible . &quot;
and we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspirations theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back , and all the images on the walls were broken for free .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the venice beach , my kids were brought in , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice ice beach , a little bit of copper wire and a couple of things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we put the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of limitations .
no insurance can create .
no hospital either .
every paralyzed now can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of somebody else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about this : we have a 4-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this fame before the great unveiling .
and after more than a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and crawled nights , tony drew back after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve got his bed tilted so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot before the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a feeling that was in the parking lot .
and funny , we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone grabbed down and pulled my head up so i could breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight .
that keeps us in the pole , and let &apos;s continue to evolve .
and we need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same as a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve received all kinds of recognition .
we won a few prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrases , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong tweeted about us and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this is -- and this is closing the entire circle -- is that this april , in the inner city of los angeles , there will be an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty decreasing .
so i &apos;m basically talking about this : if you see something that &apos;s impossible , then make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with fiber technology , but i &apos;ve just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on our legs together .
and that question should be asked to each of you , every single day , in which you realize something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
we just signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or you can have me in leather , but no one has ever chosen a farmer .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle began back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classrooms .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin &apos;s toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to take a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , in the middle of the night , i got a call from this teacher , woman , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy i know you &apos;ve found him now .
we built the pieces so that we could just decompose them with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight to their family , because it was necessary .
it was something that we knew how to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , she turned to a box full of ashes and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about had been shown .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , adding them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to recombine them , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this is so often mentioned here today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you get up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine an engine that makes a clap , a clap , a clap , a clap , a clap , a clap , a clap .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the aircraft companions .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process of what they &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we were not so far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the engines .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the lowest words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; get ready for the crash . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the border staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in their eyes , there was a shy , life was at the end .
i want to share with you three things that i learned that day about me .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people that i wanted to reach a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase , which is , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is so far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to change anything more in my life .
and this urgency , this goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair breadth -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity , and with my mistakes , i aspired to become better in everything that i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to get rid of negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock begins to count , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 ... &quot;
when we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this sense of dying , man , is not terrifying .
almost as if we prepare our lives for a long time .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish for one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month later , i went to see my daughter &apos;s resurrection -- first grader , not much artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologist recombination that uses biology to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time that i connected the dots to each other , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , anything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which was to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to everybody who flies today is : imagine that the same thing happens on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you put up , because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is three million wheels of radiation .
and more than anything else , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for nuclear weapons development is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can compromise the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we &apos;re able to get an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a waiting engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research at stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown , which was the point and purpose of this construction .
the only thing we knew was very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper- part , he made using countless cero-day-flaws .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet was like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniff on it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has been recombined as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this was a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon find out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the code of attack , and we found that it &apos;s built into two digital warheads -- a smaller and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information at their disposal .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already been given that the drug of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from that attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system functioning calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
her hunters could smell the urine of a 40 step away and determine what kind of animal was .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can actually live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for tickets and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to make these theories , let &apos;s remember that it &apos;s definitely highly scalable sabotage , and it has to be a high-quality goal , and very likely it &apos;s in iran , because most infections have been reported there .
well , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
basically , it goes out on the bay department , nuclear power plants , and on the uranium incentive plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead with rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of attacking was actually to let it happen slowly and inevitably -- obviously trying to get warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precise data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature on how these centrifuges were built in natance , and found that they were structured in what &apos;s called cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , the fit was really good together .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were looking at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it wasn &apos;t just like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors , and slows them down , and the big warheads come in with six cascades in interaction and manipulate valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s soundness , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s an emotion shot of the molecule that we made using these processes -- in fact , we just used lefty mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we put them in . yeast then automatically assemble them .
here &apos;s something really cool stuff that we discovered -- really took me out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it catches the incoming values of sensors -- so , for example , of printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still on the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the pursuit , the surveillance chain is fed with earlier recordings of the video .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just overlisting the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and much more aggressive .
the idea is to overcome a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope . it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , if the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up depositing valves within a millisecond .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if those are at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system , will notice it .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranium enrichment .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they are in the united states , in europe and japan .
this is images over a six-second period .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we need to set the consequences , and we need to start preparing ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is the cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking for terrible situations , and all of this for just trying to study social debris in a way that you &apos;re engaging and interesting , and hopefully understanding what makes you entertaining and accessible to the audience in a way .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure that has ever been created by humans .
some of you may have heard that i turned an ad on ebay a few weeks ago .
i sent some facebook news , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights to my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unprecedented opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let that go again -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re just seeing , which at that point didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues to what the topic would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could eventually fly around your ears according to content , especially if i were to put your company in dumb for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
by the way , this is just the title of work .
so despite that warning , i knew that anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you that with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could get me prepared , nothing could get me prepared for anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys going into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the great movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from above to bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely tagged -- from the cover sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in eternity forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and ton macoutes and the toxin that was used to make zombies .
if we were to print it with a writing size of 10 and no distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold .
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get you to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of statts .
so this is the whole concept , the whole movie , from the beginning to the end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help to do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how receiving people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s going to be hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be very likely &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the movie or a difficult thing to do ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands are .
yes .
if you look at the people you have to do with ...
it &apos;s as simple as you do in eukaryonts as we are : you just take out the nucleus and you put another one in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places we can turn to .
put the camera in .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out of &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turned out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one by one .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , so many people as possible to see it .
especially in the world today , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument that the masses are bringing that message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but recently we &apos;ve shown that you can do a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other , and you can activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this image represents is a problem .
you see , if you put transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your way , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to explore and look through ; immediately , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business language -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species , and roughly , these two are separated from each other like humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to pick this chromosome , and we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it gets so far that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange landway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip is eating .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but there was only one company , one agency , ready to help us -- and it &apos;s just because i knew john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go straight to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason why their movies are so successful , is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the grand movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to bring the process a little bit further .
every time i go on my way , and every time i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they so far ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short cut .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an extensive socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , remember people in ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in which words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
overwhelmed technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of any place , adding thousands of characteristics in just a second to a species .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-company .
what about me ? what about the printing press ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who are like me , otto normal consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief in the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that will have changed at a moment , has missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s revival hits skate punk , except on the washday .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genius , the style i have is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray sounds and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand i am is , i would say , neat fly .
there are enzymes that are called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
part of the hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schedules all over the country , globally .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addictive tyberling .
can you do that ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added already .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often look at the intersection of dark glamour and neat fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could invade my head , somebody who could really help me understand what they call the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , febreze , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for them , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this connects to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was exposed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with a new chromosome cell .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what &apos;s the relationship between the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are strange . i like odd things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had added .
what is the machete ? what puppet stage are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... this doesn &apos;t have to be scared . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be like .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality had two separate , but it had a full pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight-hour brand .
they &apos;re very good at completing themselves .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies are just going to focus on a strength , rather than both .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re welcoming , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a historical chess .
what other brands do they do ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
now , there are trade-offs and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eight , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how about it ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings the blood into the wounds ?
or are you more like a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , time , adventurous , failing and loving like erol flynn , agile and profession , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you mindful and monument like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , sure , born , sacred , thoughtful , thoughtful , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the movie , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies , and they said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to do anything with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to get this control , who wanted to do business with somebody as much as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t normally have -- stories that a commercial would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you use mris today to pin the funeral centers of the brain , both to make advertising and to make movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising was banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no evidence , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are heading into impoverished schools , all across america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i got the greatest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands have done .
because they surrounded the middle man , they surrounded the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview challenges .
and what was that like for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film had the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be able to create a new form of cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
now , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every ad agency that we talked to has recommended their customers to make their fingers .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks that are in these risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you &apos;re training your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that when we move forward , we need to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that they might be scary of .
finally , when we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
each of them has a big spoon full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , should we welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk is &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights on ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this is what &apos;s happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at 7100 dollars to fund my ted show next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i was talking about doing something with museums and art , and my chief , who is now , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have access to many museums and those works of art .
so when i traveled , and i went to these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the beginning .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re at this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just move on . a lot of fun .
sticks them .
thank you , but the best part is coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers of pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click this now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people fuel .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , talked to some of the people we know about met , and actually found that it &apos;s a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the end of the day .
apparently it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to get really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that to nine .
the best part comes -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush ?
and what if you want to see van gogh create this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can make your own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is the donated , in the national alignment .
you can see everything with remarks , send your friends , and so you can start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think the final thing , for me , is that all the wonderful things here are not from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from artists .
and that was a humility experience for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that &apos;s landing in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have chosen for one of these extreme , but i think for most people in the audience , their brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good proportion of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good proportion of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he kept falling .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you alone , and they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with soil switches , but with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like flying directly through walls , or that you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the quantum mechanics theory .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
this didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i play with them sometimes , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , no one has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the quantum mechanics rules , shouldn &apos;t they just follow all the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
and we &apos;re basically bumping into the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so i would feel strongly better about the whole thing , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so , a couple of years ago , i was doing this .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re looking at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesia methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and i racked for 100 hours on all the big devices .
for the last little bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to bother them , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that unmoving objects feel the same .
the co-drivers for intractable objects are not just people , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s past them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal was going to behave quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the travelers .
and then we did .
we turned off the lights , put it in a vacuum and sucked out all the air , and cooled it to almost now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really kind of weird .
instead of just being quiet there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was kind of like this -- like a stretching and squeezing bladder balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we could make it vibrate at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is something really awesome .
what does it mean to vibrate for an object at the same time and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan or drug new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise times , they agree .
for the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocated .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which at the same time means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
it was worth making me in the clean room for all this year , because , you know , check this out , the difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine you were in a number of places at the same time , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just mal selection . we can select by life , production of chemicals or fuel production and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with your body being delocated in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece of metal .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , where you actually sit down and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and work , the possibility is to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all competing for new residents .
we &apos;re far from this goal right now .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even available to a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could make the world very simple with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just swap out the building of apartments against cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments are already doing this , but half of them are not yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you would be relying on , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid complaining and deflecting from degrading .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out that it &apos;s very hard to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of living , provided that the laws there would support a building like this , and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
later , i found out that about the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans leave their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unsettled surface of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- part of the american embassy ; part of the canadian ambassador , and if people want to work under the canadian rules or the united states , they can work there , and they can do anything on the surface of these messages that they usually need to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a massive crisis of compression .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovations and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his head of resilience .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a tedglobal talk .
we &apos;re now focusing on fourth generation fuels .
by improving , testing , and by studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give great attention to new technologies , but for progress , it needs technology and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he again showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december , in the boardroom of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that a surface in some cases is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we need to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you saw corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk presented in very simple form that a charter city is a place whose initial uninhabited country , a founding contract that determines the laws that exist there and that allows people to decide either to live under these rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who meant that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and the fifth of january .
so i gave one more talk with facts , which includes a graph like this , which tries to prove that if you want to make a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch represents the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that are going to come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugarcants , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and careful .
the head of congress came onto the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and you played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new opportunities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the aid of partnerships , they could benefit from their partner countries , which they would support for the legislation for this charter and the permission that everybody can trust that the charter is really performed .
and the insight of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way of getting the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have suffered from fear and suspicion for many years .
we went into an area .
but , as we think , the only way biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food , or the limitation of the availability , is when we see co2 as a starting material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that are going to go this way .
this is a picture of this place .
it &apos;s got a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted congress for a change in constitution to have a constitutional rule that is reliable for specific development areas .
in a country that has just been through a massive crisis , congress has been elected for that change in 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to become part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was permitted to a voice for the second time with 114 .
immediately after that election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in going into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center built in south korea , big than the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first ones to fuel the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years of getting the permits .
the other place that was very interested in building the city is singapore .
already two cities have been built in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , that &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already considering this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already worked on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the supreme court of the legal system there .
also , urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been explained , there &apos;s a lot of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to look at america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say that they want to live permanently in a different place .
a million people go out of latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work , sometimes they are single mothers who need to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even kids who are trying to find their parents that they , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities competing for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that a typical american does on a day is 70 .
and also , recently , a study done with ceos , where they observed the ceos for a week .
and these scientists just documented the different subjects that these ceo has been doing , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the issues .
and they found that an average ceo is doing 139 tasks in the week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
just for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category against the one in one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re going to do the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision overload problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , just your hand if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision overload problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essig and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank the water .
i loved going to this business , but at a time i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years old olive trees .
so one day i decided to visit the filialleiter , and i asked the director , &quot; does this model work that they really provide all these opportunities to people ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marching gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we set up a little incentive sludge right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first , what would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case did people buy more of a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
the people who stopped when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who were standing when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six to choose than when they had 24 to choose .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production places , convert co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the issue of the day : financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions of saving for the retirement of almost a million americans of about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of subscribers that were possible to have a retirement plan , the 401 plan , is going to affect the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people anything between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , indeed , the participation was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that were offering two fonds , a subset in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that were offering almost 60 fonds , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you &apos;re going to be able to participate , if there were more opportunities to choose , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate were more likely to have more opportunities available to them , the more they rent it to actia and fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more opportunities they had available , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions are one of the decisions that someone would recommend when we care about their future financial well-being .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three essential negative consequences in humans that provide more and more choices .
they are pushing the decision -- they are pushing up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they &apos;re making worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they choose more for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective .
the main reason for this is that we might enjoy these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essig and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparison and limitations and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , limits .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that there &apos;s less .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? to become a major source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to limit , and you get rid of the unimportant equal opportunities , well , then there &apos;s a rise in sales , there &apos;s a cost down , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble were reducing the different head and shoulder species of 26 to 15 , they were experiencing an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst selling catastrophe , they found that the profits went up 87 percent -- a result of both the sales &apos; rise and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart gives you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the nine-largest supermarket in the world today , is aldi , and they only give them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how to best say the choice , was something that david laibson has very strongly designed , which is a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard is now automatically participating in a life-time fund .
but also , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to the development of vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fonds , not 300 or more fonds .
you know how people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
now , before we started this day , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to provide an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap them , if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always a year behind , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everyone who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
you knew it was a trick , wasn &apos;t it ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that you saw objectively , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that you felt it the second time more real .
because the images made it feel real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making , which is concretization .
i think that this can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , understanding what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences need to be vividly and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an ec-map or a credit card than they spend on barmoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel the money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it always was , we just added a little bit .
the small thing that we added was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or increase by four percent in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings accounts .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than we can with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now be accelerated with the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaes , and perhaps eukaryontes .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine gang .
it turns out it &apos;s up in the throwaway supermarkets and down in the northeast area , variing the number between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i gave you more choice and a better choice experience than i gave you the 400 versus if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called jazz , and the other is called swing .
if you think the left display is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a couple .
if you think that &apos;s jazz on the left , and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is just to have a chance to survive long enough to do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the selector something , not to give the choice .
and this is a problem that you often see when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the ability to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different from the number of choices that they have in the decision .
color , outdoor color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four ways .
what i do now is i change the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many ways , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re always using the standard choice in the decision , that means you &apos;re being overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing you .
what they find is that the people who go from many to the low choices possible over and over again are the standard choice .
we lose them .
if you go from the few choices to the many , then you stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses , nothing tells me about my preferences in indoor equipment , it still prepare me to choose .
so it &apos;s there . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment that has ever been addressed -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also puts me in excitement about the great product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to motivate myself to be involved in this .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that are advocating the problem of decision-making -- limiting -- get rid of the abundant alternatives ; make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
every one of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use it for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in the choice .
and the more we &apos;re selective in choosing , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube . i look at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video is viral , and then we want to talk about why it &apos;s important .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remnant of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of the slavery season .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and up to 600 million times within a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have enabled us all or all of our creative activities to become insanely famous in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet until next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , only one tiny percentage ever gets viral , and it &apos;s looked at thousands of times and so on at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , partners and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you call yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine underneath geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things , and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
now , tosh.0 put it on , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of the mystery science theater was a first one to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared it with a large audience and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this great insider joke , and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of friday in youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-page entertainment of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
this is a work i work on . it &apos;s called atlas detector -- 44 meters in width , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that exists in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community came out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something we do .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what kind of scripts could you have written in that kind of thing ?
in a world where every minute of two days of video is uploaded , only really can reveal unique and unexpected video .
i admitted , i wasn &apos;t very interested in this when a friend of mine said i should look at this great video , about a guy who protests ticket in new york for bikes in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike route , but there are often disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike route .
since that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at the funny idea , and his argument was five million times .
this approach applies to anything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
and all of this leads to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everyone has access to and where the audience determines popularity .
as i said , one of the greatest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- made his start with youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the pieces of the puzzle .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind in the march of the communicators in saigon , as he must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now joking his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused immense jewelry in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it had not been free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we did survive .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat in the early morning red is running in lake .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a job : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film saga glitt a boat still on the lake , as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle , which returned all the way around the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to get a rain of particles to the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
they were scared of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
when i was a prisoner , my sister and i would have drunk her and my grandmother .
my first memories are of this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , clapping any wave on the bow , the length and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came out many times , but they were fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the waste of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like that again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of the puzzle is about four women in three generations , together , building a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we were down in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made up of immigrant layers .
unlike in the old-class middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , in footscray , there was no sophisticated thinking .
the smells from the ladder bars came from the rest of the world .
and the offenses broken english were exchanged between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , doubled layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and they were put into more english and math education , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , the new things that always came out of second hand .
two of the strands for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because it had to pass six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the greatest jewelry , or this , as someone went to the google side and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; shut eye , &quot; and here and there were mumaleries , &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
where do you go home ?
something went up in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to get you out of the way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we were telling each other about our day , and we were listening to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat &apos;s nightmare .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came to wake them up so i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then made a cosmetic education and opened up another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and inflexible , and troubled children , caught between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides the scientific impact .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one of them , i was the classic asian student , who provided undesperate demands to himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe lives that carried tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many have been given help over the years .
and because of this help , i was selected in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous inhabitant of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who had been invited to speak in places that she had never heard of , and in housing , whose existence you could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have graduated every day for 20 years by telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , three of us still in the same bed .
i told my mother , i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we were climbing the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i was talking about adolescence and education , and the neglect of marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine goes to high-performance .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated from that , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself in a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the image -- and not just okay , but something to be grateful for , perhaps a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead to the collapse of the horizon so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that wouldn &apos;t have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagnity .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the boxes were not &quot; going to be an irresistible challenge .
now , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i was cooking a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to go to the u.s .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i had moved , and the adventure continued .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died soon after she was born .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without her husband &apos;s support , she was making a sensation by bringing him to court and being an adviser in her own case , and an even bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; turned out to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shooting wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the space between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around her sarg .
we told her stories , and we insured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because she &apos;s been holding her since this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; they didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you look at who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to our lives .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between the nine-thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory turdefect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i think about the boat .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life that bold dry every wave that was unbiased , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
also , tan &apos;s mother is here in the fourth or the fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because this is , of course , a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and by doing that , the wires slightly intact and 13-thousand light bulbs suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i received my first digital camera , at 15 years old .
i combined it with my former preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because when the camera was using it , the process was much more in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much rider road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , hold a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living bears are the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want it to look like it could have been in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to find out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how to make it tangible in a two-dimensional space .
now , all of this is even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted around about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a reality puzzle where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that &apos;s not possible .
so we &apos;re checking our brains , because our brains are simply not accepting that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make an image look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
second , combined photos should have the same lighting type .
and these two images meet these two demands -- shot from the same height and the same lighting type .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and we had to remove them , which we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and helplessness to the edges , adding photographic scarcity , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we &apos;re wiping the boundaries between the different images and making them look like a single photo , although a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the lower part was manipulated .
but in fact , this picture is completely composed of photographs of different places .
personally , i find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to deal with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in winter , i knew i needed several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a dial trip .
the bank comes from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconstructed them , repaired them .
and yes , i actually colored the house up on the island of red to make it look swedish .
so in order to achieve a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to go beyond planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you make good images , the result can be pretty , and also pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools that are there , and the only thing that imitates us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way back now .
and one of the things we introduced at bike boud university was to hire a major listener .
and she &apos;s not particularly scientific -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it &apos;s sending my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be refunctional .
and they &apos;re also called off my general doctor so he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump on my wlan-wage , and people talk to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , only a little salad today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer forced , group forced , to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to smoke patients .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
next week , this is coming to the market .
there will be this little blood pressure measuring device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come into play . they can not only take control again , be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us with health care in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to collect the first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start to hug patients on the team .
and they can do that through these techniques , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things that we &apos;ve done , i &apos;d like to share with you through a short video .
we have all navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way , these accidents are restoring the debate about the value of science and engineering at such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject that .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so , what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where it is , &quot; because sometimes it &apos;s closed during business times , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , extended reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to do this not only as aed4u , as the product calls itself , but also as aed4us .
and we want to bring this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits , is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationships or somebody else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
these could be custom services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us do that , and try to improve health not just something , but take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to tell you about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to conserve by ...
... pay attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be drawn from under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to deny the soul of the living temporary , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumpsy are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump over this -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video .
no .
this is not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much all they hate , we made them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peace scorps for computer geeks .
we pick some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to the city hall .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban employees .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who frees him up when he &apos;s invaded , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at branding when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of snow last february .
and they realized that the city never swallows these hydrants open .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael &apos;s ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed up the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you vote on it freely when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my job , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. department of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gulls .
and chicago has just introduced it so that people will freak out the buffer sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it has spread inherently , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
the software collection typically takes a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method that parents can find out which ones are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it went over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project right now in the california justice , which has cost the taxpayers two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then spreads from selected , is a kind of a shot before the government &apos;s bug institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should .
and not even like a tech company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , that means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but what &apos;s more important about this app is that it represents a new generation that addresses the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sales institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and this is a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , something strange has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snakes at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we can do together that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up on the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you think about it because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power -- remember , &quot; we people ? &quot; -- how we think about it will affect how this change is going to happen .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was mostly about choosing people in a office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that community is all about marsupial rats .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called pray , pray , love -- which , unlike all my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international best seller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call 311 in your city .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
scott gets this anfruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music , and see if the livestock is off ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacine rats .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i were to the end .
we didn &apos;t write that app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in , &quot; thylacine rat in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everyone can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next post we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacine ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- to the demise !
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine rat . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get the government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of the government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform here .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white people go to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very worried about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear that you will never overcome that success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about this is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how many times did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , our values , and our needs to be reflected , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you will continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that this thing that we own , and that we pay for , makes something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we need to rely on the machinery of government .
so the occupythesia movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of worried citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo of the financial reform act .
that &apos;s not being politically active , that &apos;s bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world we want to leave our children .
okay , that &apos;s really courage .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we need to do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to promote the function of government fundamentally in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and that knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems that are right .
now the average age of our field is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing its voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting for who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer faced with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to open up a fire hydrant , to hunt uncrowds , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure enough , we could have been able to free these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question that i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we have to do together , all together , are we going to be just a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid not to succeed ? &quot;
my role is usually to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up are going to be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can hardly hold .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single boring slide .
... could you just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows a data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some other ones that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a saying is going to kill you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn the lights back on .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a way , and this is any measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , that would be on the semi-logarithmic scale very unreasonable , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if transportation technology went as fast as microprocessor technology , we could go into a taxi in the morning , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to take this crafts and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scraped dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but that &apos;s not so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is increasing exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of what it is .
now , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s really true , it means we &apos;re right here in the middle of a transition .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world now to a new kind of world .
something like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is , how is this new world going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is starting to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;m in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look at 30 or 50 years into the future right now , because everything is going to be so different that what we &apos;re doing now just doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is : yes .
so i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we need to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and i want to look at this on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense when you divide it into some billions of steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was smashing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
all of them who were like this started to divide .
yes , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet wasn &apos;t about living in the sense of today , because every single one of them was just a little , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have distributed to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for growth to be more optimal than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied at a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interestingly , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t quite understand , these droppers have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information , in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , they found a way in this insane , evolutionary way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information , over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came out , remained the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same writing .
and every being uses the exact same letter and the same code .
we are so far that we can write , just for pleasure , even in this code .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white pulver here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in airports away from security staff .
and there &apos;s -- what i did is , i took this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i amplified it 10 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everybody in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the rewriting of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;ve been afraid of a lot more things that no one would expect .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , and that was that these cells began to communicate and exchange information , so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s also why , for example , the durability of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put that information into the dna with other bacteria , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
now this communication allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , which meant that if a community succeeded , all the individuals of the community were repeated more and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types that are working together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we are such a multi-cellular community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level where evolution occurred was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step happened within these communities now .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;m wondering , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning happened within the period of the life of a single organism , rather than through that evolutionary period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now , this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these kinds of information processing structures were still not there .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process using these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could take place within a time learning framework .
what happened then is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
once , for example , the most subtle version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , unorderly and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving grunting sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head that has a kind of similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multicellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , as we hold data , present , process .
the invention of language , for example , was a little step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video receivers , cd-roms , and so on , all of our specialized mechanisms that we &apos;ve built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds today .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel to do ?
you &apos;ve also seen tys little evolutionary example of where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve raced the time scales again .
the first steps of the story that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds on itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its change speed .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other jobs don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally by building computers , and i know that i could not use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connection machine .
it has billions of these .
instead , what i do , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , this machine , and the machine does something that goes far beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it &apos;s partly doing it with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand so far .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve been using a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these randomly chosen instructions , run out of all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that are the closest to my bias . &quot;
so in other words , i define first what i want .
let &apos;s say , i want to sorrow numbers , which is a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for this .
so find programs that can be the most accurate number .
of course , the chance of randomly chosen instructions is very small that , by accident , they &apos;re going to sort numbers , so probably none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them may be lucky to have two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my bias .
store them off , delete the rest .
now reproduces all the remaining ones that have best sorted the numbers .
and with a method of recombination , analog for reproduction . &quot;
with your chemistry block , john -- how are you going to do it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids are erasing the features of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come out of combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluate them again .
maybe have some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can run through an evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sorrow numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure you do the job because you come out of a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they were doing the right job .
i sat in a 747 together with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map , and he says , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &apos; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an development process is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken from the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists did not get people &apos;s reputation of alcohol addictive manic depression over the centuries .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding themselves from themselves .
we &apos;re going to pick up .
we &apos;ve come to a point where analog is at the time , as a one-cell organisms have evolved into multicellular organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we do seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all the genres , seem to have this reputation , mentally immensely unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really think that something else is coming after us .
i think it &apos;s very , very tirelessly for us to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think we all here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was in the desert under the starry sky with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indian at the time , we would jump into a car and swirl across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death rates of really great minds from the 20th century alone , which young and often died from your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince had arjuna , he took a bow , shot out into the ground and water .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got some fear of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who were not actually suicid seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our send clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to make magic rather than killing .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
the storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to dump the ipad and let the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be in a single marble .
and so every book , and every world , becomes a little marble that i &apos;m bringing here to the magic device in the machine .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places in the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that &apos;s indian , but it &apos;s also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody like this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow we &apos;ve accepted the notion of the internal and collective , that creativity and suffering are kind of natural , and that art , at the end , always leads to the sea jellyfish .
we &apos;ve all heard about fees and nymph , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras for thousands of years in an old , courageous book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story about new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem over the last 10 years , is that kids are in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you get sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect pictures of natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and mussels .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this ritual of childhood is brought back . you have to go out and take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i &apos;d like to ask everybody here today is , is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you actually took .
there are a variety of ways in which magic connects the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad and you see , through augmented reality , an animation of 11 that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move towards a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and us closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in the social building settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
being here at ted , seeing and listening to how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things here that are affecting the world .
and sometimes when something comes about ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher have meaning , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . as a doctor , but you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african american household , dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trancestate that includes glowing coal without burning , an astonishing illustration of the ability of the mind to affect the body in such a way that it is when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it go into the next century .
it was also the starting point of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very strongly .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a young boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative lives to live .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins went all over the place .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that one morning i woke up and went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room , staring at me .
first , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was about 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me to the hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me -- in my situation -- it would be very dangerous to start , this dark path of being sort of downloaded -- especially in the fact that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey word ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down , and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
and then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandmother . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you &apos;re going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; well , next thing you &apos;re going to do is you &apos;re going to do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise it . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is &quot; that you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack beer with my sister and i went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well as we were .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallowing of beer and offered to my sister one , and she assumed , and then they offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . we do it today , you do everything else that we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked at me and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going crazy about the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything i &apos;m going to write from now on is being reviewed as the work that came after the descended success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted public .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m standing that i &apos;ve never drank a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all her grandchildren are special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
i &apos;m saying it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol diseases .
and she believed that these were the issues that we needed to care about .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged on currency or conditional exposure .
i think mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black people between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned in currency , or conditional exposure .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , abandoned in prison , or in terms of conditional exposure .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , it &apos;s also deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that will treat them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
yet , we seem to be very happy with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
this is the kind of thought that can get someone to start at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , drink gin . and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama is permanently pulling the right to vote when they &apos;re sentenced .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honor will be as high as before the election act .
the silence is numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , there &apos;s life penalty for children without conditional penalty .
we &apos;ve run a lot of processes already .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think , because we &apos;ve been taught to do this , that the real question is : did a human being deserve to die for a crime of him ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we executed , one that we found for innocent , which was uncharted and unleashed from death row .
an amazing error rate . one out of nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique clay of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i met were the people from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anybody fly with an airplane , if for nine planes to pick up , one will fall off .
but somehow we &apos;re able to get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue to write , i need to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped your life .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re giving talks . they &apos;re telling people to stop saying we have to do it for the first time in our nation &apos;s history of terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with this . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the racial racing and decades of the racially-motivated submission and apartheid came .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a safe distance between me and my very natural climbing about how the reaction to the writing will be .
and so we don &apos;t really understand the importance of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re bumping together all the time .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that racial racing is not overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , there can never be more . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models for this last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about it than we can help to deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it got very silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we &apos;re ever talking about the systematic killing of people .
it would be unconscious of us to make conscious and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people right , especially if there were a lot of jews below .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unconscious .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the complained black is and the victim knows -- in the same states where the body is borrowing yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this search led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but then finally , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deployment , limitation .
i think it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be in a complex world .
to me , time means to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all need to eventually believe things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will come back .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us to be not just open to all the bright and enthusiastic things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought against oppression in eastern europe , we wanted everything . but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities need to engage in .
there &apos;s no limitation to technology and design that allows us to be fully human , unless we have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch you deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , okay ?
ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boykott -- an incredible african-american woman -- and virginia durr , a white man , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women came together and they were just talking .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , woman parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , i love to . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me to tell us , &quot; now bryan , tell me what the &quot; initiative for the same right &quot; is .
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to people for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are you trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocently convicted .
we want to fight prejudice and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate life penalty without conditional sentences for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and said , &quot; mmm . mmm . mmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine divinity spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and therefore you must be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be more brave .
we need to find ways to make these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned some very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
from socrates , he was known to believe that he had a demonstration that told him that he was far away .
if somebody takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that is , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that needs to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in many places , poverty is the opposite of justice .
and finally , i think , although it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not in the things that we develop , not in our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the judgments , the incarcerated .
because in this context , first of all , we begin to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose equilibrium . i end up with a story .
descendants of the ancient tyrannical civilization that populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people returned to an isolated volcanic massive rise above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of bodily creative mind , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard sentences .
i go to the study prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and who is supposed to be an adult .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as adults , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magician .
that &apos;s great . the roman didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also want something .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t think right anymore , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this assignment , and the headline was , &quot; commission , my poor , 14-year-old black mandators , treating like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my contract , i explained that misconduct of the state sanctuary and the police and risk failures was to take into account .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there is nothing in this country that is no longer computational , that there are only misconduct .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i had not only written him , but sent him to the court .
a few months went on , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be literally living in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and assisted the artist at work , in a sense , invisible and created the result of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , it &apos;s going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car and went up the staircase to the court .
when i got up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered into my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
that &apos;s brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protect you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply in me , identity , the ability to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i went to the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you hire this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office workers .
in the handshake , the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
and finally , this older black man came into the courthouse with a very concerned face , and he sat right behind me , almost to the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in that disturbed that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i came here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal out of the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i came to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is far out , but it &apos;s increasing justice .
the artist of aging was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not completely evolved as humans , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that our survival is linked to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , entertainment and creativity to humanity , pity and justice .
and most of all , i want you to see that as well , just to say , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard to help and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , in this spring , there &apos;s a folk decision about actually doing a effort to redirect something of the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , in california , for example , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on the death penalty in the next five years , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the deadlines don &apos;t end up with an arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you wouldn &apos;t have anything to look at you , everybody knew that you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference is going to suggest that investing money in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a relationship with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of the violent crimes .
it was the misguided cruise against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come in the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have three violations that are bringing people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , for the theft , not for forcing them to give things back to the victim .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a criminal justice , not less .
and i think that our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string swing here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death is an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit lame .
famine in somalia . 3 : pepper spray of police .
voice 4 : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
woman 6 : social failure . 7 : 65 deaths .
speaker 8 : tsunami warning . 9 : cyber-attack
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media prefer to show us negative themes , because our minds are paying attention to these particular themes .
so people in the west have really thought about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for this .
every second of every day , our senses capture much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we &apos;re not more important than our survival , the first stop for all this information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it carries and goes through all the information in the search for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage &quot; when it bleeds , &quot; the demand is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices , seven days a week , putting all these negative news 24 hours a day , it &apos;s not a miracle that we are pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodbatted continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed , and we had this big idea , and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- about all the gods and mysteries , and there &apos;s no longer room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating by a series of forces , so strong that we &apos;re going to be able to create a world of surplus in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity deaths , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so that we can predict the evolution .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has doubled more than the inflation of the world &apos;s average income has tripled .
child mortality has decreased by a tenth .
and also , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have dropped by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we are living in a very peaceful time in human history .
and according to charles kenny , literacy rates have gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we keep increasing our expectations .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
think that a large proportion of americans who live below the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , cell phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these forms technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil showed us that every tool that &apos;s going to be an information technology on the curve of moore &apos;s law is going to make a big leap , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
so the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this genius or this artist -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law for the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , in war , or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it &apos;s not slowing down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic course on the left , it goes upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are all available .
cloud-computing , what my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow us to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was a great thing .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson constrains human enemies . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that , within a decade , can positively affect the lives of billions of people .
think about the fact that a group of students today can influence the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think to allow a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all the divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteries is a little too much responsibility to burden them up to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today we can demonstrate to dozens of companies that did exactly this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about making scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam was given aluminum bribe .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at that time , more valuable than gold and platin .
this is the reason why the dome of the washington monument was made out of aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy crashes every 88 minutes on the earth &apos;s surface .
this disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , they were able to reduce the cost of solar power in india by 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
last month , this published with a study that shows that by the end of this decade , in the sunny areas of the united states , solar will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have a surplus of energy , we will also have water in abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think that success pressure has killed our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are ice , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but here &apos;s hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
these are new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called the slingshot , which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand gallons of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology support innovation that is available today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
and we also saw this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent reduction rate of mobile phones in developing countries to the end of 2013 .
just think that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have ever predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photo , libraries of books and music , technology to medical diagnostics -- are now literally dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best thing about this is probably what &apos;s expected in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize .
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can coughs or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus , which is not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the greatest force that will lead us to a world of surplus .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are population .
we just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re predictably going from two billion internet users to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the training for priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe returning to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to desire ?
and instead of staggering economically , i see one of the greatest economic shots in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they will become healthier by using the tricoder , and they will be trained better by the khan academy , and by having the ability to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , unheard voices before ?
how about giving the oppressed , wherever you are , a voice to pay attention and create change , for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to conclude with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may be familiar with .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eliminate the thought of 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
and it showed that today , human pattern recognition better folds the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who &apos;s the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor was it a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant in a rehab clinic , and was the best protein ordering in the world at night .
ladies and gentlemen , which gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of the techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would be really excited about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply fatty magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long enough time , so i can allow myself a piece of my own false prestige to give this up .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving to the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon and turns to statistics , and to use this as a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to relate to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is going to beat three out of 10 strokes .
that means hitting the ball in the field , it &apos;s coming up , it &apos;s not being caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t get it done in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what you call a 300ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what you call a 400ter ?
this is someone who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is , why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player to meet over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s move back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , doesn &apos;t it ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged cardiac vessels , and your pediatrician has a cardiologist whose average performance is at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rise .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , should be a birthday worker , a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
what we do , though , is we send each one of them , including me , to the world with the claim to be perfect .
no one ever makes a mistake , but no one ever worries about the details of how to do this .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
in high school , a high school student once said that brian goldman would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little high school stages at the nurse residence at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything i &apos;ve heard about when it came to explaining the absolutely insane capability of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the difference diagnosis to classify the renal tubula azidose .
and all the time i collected more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i finished with cum laude .
and i left the medical school with the impression that , if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while until i met woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me in the hospital emergency department .
at that point , i was the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my mission when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everyone here -- doesn &apos;t always do reasonably .
and to give feedback to my top doctor .
i studied woman printers , and she was in breathtaking .
and when i listened to her , she made smashing sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood in the lung is stuck , and it &apos;s filling the gradually , so the shorthand came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i put them in and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressures of the heart .
i gave her medicine that we call diuretics , water tablets , so that they leave out the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , sometimes he can feel straight about paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the listener and do what i should have done , which would have been a call to my top doctor to tell him that he had a chance to make his own image .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute to her more information .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted so successfully and so capable of taking responsibility that i was so acting , and so i would be able to make my patients without having to contact with him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of darkness , in stone huts at the base of the glaciers for 18 years , and two periods of each nine , intentionally selected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in their leisure mother &apos;s lap , now they spend metamorphorphorphically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all of her life , and she told me that when she grew up in the village virginia , she was working outside in the fields , and she said she could feel and hear a poem coming across the landscape .
and so i sent them home , and i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacking confident that i asked the nurse who was taking printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it , and she said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgence papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car , when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it would be like a thunderous train of air .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words are most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but emergency medicine is particularly special , because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse expertly .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular tone .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistant brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she hardly breathed , and she walked blue .
that would roll across the country to you .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure up .
they attached it to the beating machine .
i was shocked , and i was shocked into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster , because after the stabilization , she came to the intensive care ward , and i hoped she would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up on it .
the other day , they left her -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
they say you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks i set out to design , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it swells you to conspiracy and then you get caught up with it and the best friend has a terrible discussion , but when you get to the end , you get the bad conscience , and you swore that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do review and never make the mistake again .
that &apos;s the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about it is the one that makes you sick in the heart .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that she could only do one in such a moment , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the wounds and making sure i wasn &apos;t going to be sued .
but i continued to ask myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , it made sure .
i started feeling better .
and then on a wounded day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said maybe i could feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection , and never again made a mistake that the voice could stumble .
and she did .
she ran like the devil as she was tracked by this poem , and it was only because she had to go fast enough to a piece of paper and a pencil , so she could catch it when it went through her and hold onto the sheet .
and i continued to work .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a local hospital of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with rigorous revenge .
it was a lot of time , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the revenge , and it was a little bit of pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and even as he walked out of the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my boyfriend asked me for a conversation in her office .
and she said three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it would keep moving across land and -- as she said -- looking for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the ripe ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s a streptococus infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google this , but it &apos;s not an infection of the raw , but it &apos;s the upper respiratory , and it &apos;s causing the locker of the respiratory pathways .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , and i felt free , and i went back to the work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve missed twice a blindfold .
there &apos;s a lot of things about this , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there were probably no shortage of their treatment .
and then there were those moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one thing i thought he had was kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague noticed that the patient had a hardening in the lower right sector and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluide to rehydrate him , and i also asked my colleagues to look at him .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they did surgery , and they did well .
both cases were coming to me , and they were asking me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is complete nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and not supported .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pencil just as it goes through her , and then -- she said -- it was like having her other hand reach for it , and she grabs it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish up with my mistakes and talk about them , if i have the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so you don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about somebody talking about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i went to a room full of colleagues and asked for their immediate support and started to tell them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before they really got uncomfortable , anyone would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off the wrong leg , believe me , i would have trouble looking at him in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system in which there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t . the ones that restrict sleeping deprivation and the ones that have bad outcomes and good outcomes .
she caught the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over on the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies attacking a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we eliminate those who make mistakes from medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical awareness and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn all kinds of things for one of my first articles that i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors happen every day , where one out of 10 medications is either a wrong or a wrong dozen , where hospital infections are becoming more and more and more and more abundant and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians are dying of common errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is deciphering the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t really look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all this time , they are culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that keep the claim that their prayers and their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in free and intact on the paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathology course for a patient with breast pain .
and then i take the same patient with chest pain , i sweat him , and i put a little bit of alcoholized breath on it , and all of a sudden the story is imposed with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this , in summary , is inevitable mistakes .
so if you take the system the way i was taught to do , and you put all the errors in health care , no one is left at the end .
when i heard that , i thought that was kind of creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art. &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would go to each of the rescue assistants to the cardiologists , &quot; this is my worst mistake &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , and they came in front of their head , and then they look down , and they swallow , and they start to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that puts you in place .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the redefined doctor is a human being , white , for his humanity , accepting her , is not proud of making mistakes , but putting everything out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to just make it , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that is , people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is developing to create backups that make it easier to find errors that make people inevitable , and make it as possible to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even reward for it , and that specifically for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
but i &apos;m a regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from that to pass it on .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me conclude with three of my own words : i remember me .
i &apos;m a mouthful . in order to work , i have to get up every day and sweat at at at the same time , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standard values .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was hunting sparks , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually gathered fish .
he described one as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my masonry species , sometimes this thing has mapped .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
but we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re originally .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to show a different concept , the changing wavelength , .
because i experienced it when i was studying a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and some mangroves were surrounded .
there were barrels of about 20 inches , schwarzschild brothers , a signature of the bunk .
the fisheries of this bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on average , and they earned a good earning in ghana .
when i went back there 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew out of five centimeters .
they were genetically expressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also fortunate to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my involvement in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather in the early &apos; 60s -- europe has funded a lot of development projects .
fishing promotion meant countries that have already started 100,000 fish , the industrial fishery of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went on it , and we did revelations all over the south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we had no words for what we started there .
i now know that it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our beginning was sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came down on deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition is very quick .
within a year , you run a lift and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case , a hard reason or soft coral is becoming more crappy .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time we caught a living one .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of debris is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to this without losing our minds , but actually keeping us in the opposite direction of mental health ?
but it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
so if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but you don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and in the end , they just want to get the pathetic remains .
that &apos;s now our goal , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer the way they have been .
now you might think that the problem was looking at people who surely , when they lived in predatory societies , killing animals , and who were only aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurring animal .
you always lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a great loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get less rare because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to shine on the hangs of the amazingly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything they &apos;ve learned in the abstract splendor is confirmed . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really like i told you .
we were talking about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and to deal with them .
over time , little fish are left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because they don &apos;t know that it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they will confirm it , because the evidence of how they were done in an earlier form is not the way they would like to confirm the evidence .
there &apos;s , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain that was observing in this area can &apos;t be used , or can &apos;t be used by fisheries , usually , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re restoring the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine reserve can benefit from the insight that allows them to reclaim their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , perhaps the art and the movie can fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the colors and the shadows , you might remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were touched by this -- except for the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s waking up something that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron , so he turns underwater &quot; avatar ii . &quot;
thank you .
he was driving at high speeds when he suddenly hear a little fragment of a melody , which , as it often is in inspirations , is very difficult for him to see , and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t touch them .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in government .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason : the government could track back where a text came from .
and they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do that , and how much that would limit freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print out a page , that page has bright yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that clearly lets the page go back to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and no one seems to be raining about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , citizens .
he has no piece of paper , he has no pen , he has no tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exist today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that made their money from attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts , this old climbing in him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked from this song to eternal .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watt .
bjordan sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve been illegal to use , for example , trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , that have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying on an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror two months ago was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and in this account , there were 14.9 million u.s. dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that today it &apos;s more likely that we will become victims of an online crime than one crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most of the crimes are going to come online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest attack group we see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , like , an opinion , or through your audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and became one of the main players in the online attacks field .
so these are the three main influenza groups : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who do it , but the last group are nations , governments that lead the attacks .
there are cases where we are , like diginotar &apos;s .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or was it .
last fall , it had to sign up insolves , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to ask , did he make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack ?
but instead of going into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate needs , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly prevalent in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know they can trust more than local people , and they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but if you &apos;re in a foreign country , you can do it .
certification agencies hack and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought gang and did something completely new .
how does it relate to the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april of 2011 was the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of acts .
in these acts there was a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , notes from a local company in germany , which the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could , in a very large scale , capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools so that they can go against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strayor , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to perform their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s going to be tapped into your phone with safety .
he just looked in the sky and said , excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving cars ?
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state straddler to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me , because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry !
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
do i look like i could just write a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while we like to trust our governments today , in 2011 , every right we give away is forever .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , any government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with solid measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they gave us the ability to build things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one after another .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connected stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s been estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
you don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the world &apos;s building block , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year , bell labs announced the next revolution , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squawks somebody else today .
personally , i don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re pre-made to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so they can &apos;t put them around the wrong way .
the stones are colored .
green is delivery , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
they add a blue to a green , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and you made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits are actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or resolved , littlebits allow them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebars is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a used stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we see them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how you start to understand the electronics that you surround in your everyday life that you don &apos;t learn in school .
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had , for example , designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filters , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience whatsoever -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the dark .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics became just another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design equipment and make it yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing it .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out of himself , where he didn &apos;t make it any trouble and left him where he came from , in a way , and realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the strange , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit of the way i worked , and it saved me before .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process of michael , pray , love , and i fell into one of those grubs of the doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are the younger brothers , are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think , i should just plug the project in .
but then i remembered how tom talked in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of space .
i said , &quot; listen , you guys , you know , and i both know , if this book isn &apos;t brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ? &quot;
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and keep your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , to the devil .
i &apos;m still going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to leave you with protocol that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end of it , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people gathered into month-fests with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- until dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but occasionally , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was as if time was going to stand still and the dancer was going through a kind of a shadow , and he did nothing but he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before . but it all came together .
and all of a sudden , he was no longer fully human .
it was lit from the inside , and it was lit from the bottom , and everything was lit through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what it was . they called it in his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosques conquered south spain , they brought this practice . the language changed over the centuries from the allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , which you still hear at the funeral and flames .
whenever we think about the native and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old rumor of the noblen wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought or thoreau on the other hand , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical , something that allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , can do it : a volatile look at god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer has a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never get up to those heights again .
and maybe never , ever again , anybody will call god &apos;s name when they turn , but what should they do with the rest of their life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe from the very beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you think you &apos;re a loan -- from an unthinkable source of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it like this , it changes everything .
so , inborn babies are not sentimental , nor are they being chosen by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i certainly think in the last few months , while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to appear soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly expected successes of my descended success .
what i have to say to myself all the time , when i get crazy about this , is : don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he may be .
if your job is to dance , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you get to the side decides , for a brief moment , to show a miracle of your effort , then maybe olé !
and if not , still dance .
and maybe olé ! for you , despite all that .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria swamp of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they have , through time and ritual , formed a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth itself can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into the human mind .
so , olé ! for you despite all of this , just for having the mere human love and self-sense to be there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had shrunk the size of the lower 48 states by 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there &apos;s huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , if you look at it , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we crossed that critical point .
already today in some flat lakes in alaska methane is challenging by itself from the water .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled with another group of work to another flat sea last winter .
wow !
it &apos;s fine . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat rush warms up greenland from the north .
it means that a little child from the andes who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-spirit that will be or determines its destiny will become a very different person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place as a little child from montana who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be discarded .
this is an annual water flow .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level goes through the ice sheet , it goes to the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adding .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has been shown over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet in sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see up there new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a bunch of funeral , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the sierra snow ceiling was seen .
this is the sink .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this exposure across the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the disasters all over the world have been in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
what &apos;s interesting is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day in the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific , the american continent west and both beyond the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia and believed that these forests were there to be defeated .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal dustries and oil dustries spent a quarter billion dollars last year trying to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
on christmas , i went home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow in america all of our country .
this was happening around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a delight , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
this made me a different human being than my friends under the kwakiutl who believe that these forests of the insurgency of hukuk and the curved celestial beak and the cannibalic spirits who live at the north of the world are spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa-initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable and adorable , and workers stay in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
and so we set it to the top line , to spend a substantial amount of money to get an advertisement on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , when you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it &apos;s still smelling good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s do that quietly .
saueber kohle , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s make a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , which is remarkable clean coal technology that you see here changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean carbon technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our national security challenge .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities for existence , different ways of thinking , different ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a picture i took just last april in the northwest amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon dioxide , like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a brave , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
restore america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution big enough to solve our problems .
re-offering america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a relief of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependency on old , dirty fuels that make our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate of the repertoire of the shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
re-offering america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we need to get very far , and we need to get very quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to your childhood when you were playing with building blocks .
while they realized how to reach out and reach out and take the blades and move , they actually learned how to think about and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the way we interact with real objects -- with my professional adviser patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we could use computers that , instead of using a mouse cursor that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and organize it as we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer and siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved with their hand , they can perceive each other , they can detect their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , which is why , like building blocks , you can only move them through the hands and reach out .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other and perceive the intricacies of our dealing with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video reception , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethtryptamin .
so if i put them side-by-side , that &apos;s what makes you interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by invaders , you also notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their propensity .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting color in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to cast color in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we overdo it , we can throw back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast auction and want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series , which i make with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that is a kind of scrabble mixture and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve ever seen the yanoma swallowing this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethtryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you mix again , and you have a new letter combination and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; educate words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are some more people testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turned out that he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
snuck this powder is about as much as being shot out of a rifle , and it &apos;s saturated by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive tricky twist .
we wanted to develop a learning tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s bringing a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , barrel and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence , which you can put in any pattern .
and you put them in by just holding a clay siftable to a sequencing sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular note , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed this with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who had the psychedelic appointment with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 300s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t order these tryptamins as hallucinators , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then again , over-ordered effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to eat the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and organize it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums .
and now i connect the filter with the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by flipping the pace one way or another .
and now i connect the filter with the barrel , for a little more expression .
i can make the sequence as it goes around .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i have to expand them or shortcut them .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be included properly , because of course , through a human gut , they &apos;re called monoamine oxidase .
and finally , i can shut down the whole sequence by cutting the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better than how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you some of this new design world and some of the ways that we work on in our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of commercials for interaction with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you !
yes , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should biohacking be ?
they can only be included with some other chemicals that are orbiting the mao denaturization .
i have to get a little bit out of it , and that is biohacking is just about modern molecular biology .
i &apos;m studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been looking at biohacking for just a few years now , and i &apos;ve started , because i just wanted to know , and i wanted to do it in particular , which i &apos;ve learned in a theoretical way .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology in general now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is , already extremely important , and much , much more important is going to be in the future .
there are so controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the crops .
there are now craig venter in the u.s. who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
now , there are things that have come completely in the everyday world , but most people are not aware of , like washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which is contained in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the way that you need to power the tryptamins , so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this , this technology , i just kept going in there .
so what &apos;s the hacking ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then in the media it &apos;s always going to be , yes , the hackers are going to break in somewhere , and they &apos;re going to claw data , and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacker scene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started out like , and what &apos;s behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started tinkering with computer tiles , and the internet also came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a problem of access , which is how things simplify , you know , any problem of putting up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been done with software , but there &apos;s also electronics , there &apos;s an entire bastler scene that &apos;s been done with electronics circuits doing all kinds of things .
and now , also , in biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code that yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and that &apos;s what i found incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
it &apos;s actually only taken two thousand , eight really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe , and with a cooperation in india , which now has members or active people around the world .
this is a more artistic orientation , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers , and working with scientists , trying to deal with these technologies and ask questions and creative process it , and there &apos;s museum exhibitions , and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a loose access , having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s.a , which is actually more of a forum where you meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business-centric along the way , and then they &apos;re also asked , you know , applied questions .
and based on these networks that have made the whole popular , there &apos;s been a scene that i &apos;d like to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit cluster where everybody can come .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there and just sit down with it , they set up a lab and look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
here on the lower left is a group in indonesia , house-of-nature fiber called the one , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for more than those two networks .
they also work in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics bastles , and they combine it in a very remote way .
a group of ankara , which i met a while ago , which is a group of students who wanted to teach more about the public , which they learn in college , and they did such a rigid little actions , and they tried to explain what is d.n.a .
and i have a lecture on top of the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and also , quite targeted to society with it and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you in with it ? &quot;
so , okay , now to hack biology , you need some material .
you need , of course , biological materials , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or , what you normally understand under a lab is sort of riding machines , extremely expensive , extremely distanced , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. students and so on .
and our approach was just to say , okay , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine actually has higher technology than most laboratories , which is really like that .
and the o with this premise , for example , then brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , and then took a steam pressure pot , a heat plate , and , yes , so supplement brothers , and then grew bacteria , works .
so anyone who &apos;s ever been playing a soup that they &apos;ve left for too long has done before .
so i tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then bought me second-hand devices on ebay and did a little d.n.a analysis , trying to do a father &apos;s test , which is like this , you know , d.n.a fingerprinting , to get back home .
now that shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but .
down here in this picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s a garage with all kinds of lab scaffolds that the university has done , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and it &apos;s also doing pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a quick project .
and this is biocurious , which i just mentioned , hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , so you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s where there are people who are doing this alone , up to large , larger organizations that are already doing this more formal in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , ok , it &apos;s now a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then we came from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founders , and we said , okay , we &apos;ve got to really meet now , actually meet , and then we &apos;ve organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and shortly after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and , you know , it &apos;s also about , yeah , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we did this kind of code-of-conduct work .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , their and what moves them , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we don &apos;t have that in mind , but that &apos;s what i think is , i think , has been pretty good , people are quite convinced of that .
and we actually tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca that you all recognize at great distance in the forest that seem to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yes , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink chain .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on one in the room , you can actually capture little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get this , then we took a webcam that screwed up , turned the lens off , then you have a microscope that increases about four hundred times .
you see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart , and we pulled the torch out the laser , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
this is another project that came out of the french group out of paris , which worked , which is pretty cool .
and he &apos;s got a kind of , you know , a brainwave measuring device , like e.e. , or something like that , so he &apos;s been dealing with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they make their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , this is what happened .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on that chair , sit down that helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or what they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fatal project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this paternity story , is the p.c.r , that &apos;s the polymerase-chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating , d.n.a , reproducing fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do that , the profilers in the crime scene , go there , collect some hair samples , and then they do that method , and then they can say , o.k , that hair belongs to that person , like that .
and the machines that do this kind of thing , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go like this at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbysphere , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot of things .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with this .
i mean , you don &apos;t know anything ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve set two builders up there , and they &apos;ve said , okay , we &apos;re going to make it easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve got open source , which is free hardware , electronics , this device assembled , and they &apos;re now the ones that have actually brought this to the market rider , and they &apos;re now the cheapest supply of these devices in the world .
i think , sort of , six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a frame where it &apos;s clearly available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene-gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you load d.n.a on gold particles , and the gold particles then into these air pressure pistos , and then i shot it on onions and then lighted it like this .
so the device that you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , which was kind of like going off , you know , on a branch like this , the thing on it , electronics on it and pressure on it , and that was the pressure of it , the thing had broken .
and then i took a juicy pender and i put it in there .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in full moon and they sing to one in a different scale .
a juicer , if you make the full power of water , it has enough pressure , so i think , 40 to six , about it .
and then you can accelerate the particles strong enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about 50,000 euros up or something like that , like 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically sustainable .
so that &apos;s also , right now , the core cause of the scene is to increase this availability of technology , and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can be engaged in this .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no chance to form really well .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , it &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to make meaningful decisions in society as an informed citizen , you need to be able to communicate , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a harvard ph.d. , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting tribes .
and that then firms under the headlines of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that you , as citizens , are being able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who have contributed at least officially on the website , d.i.y.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a pretty remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people there than actually exist .
so i know some of them who didn &apos;t come in .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
and partly with these hackerspaces , these places are put together .
