you know , one of the great reasons in traveling and one of the joys in ethnic research is to live together with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the countless cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the indigenous , they think of them as orginian and colorful , but somehow constrains them to the past , while the real world , that means that our world is continuing .
and this is in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five thousand .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re also going to spread , and then we &apos;re going to be linked in a similar way , so that there &apos;s more people involved .
and i would invite every time to deal with it , and also try something .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get there .
thank you very much for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , in fact , in the 20th century , you will remember , in 300 years , not for your wars or technological innovation , but rather than an era where we were against and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted , so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work for people ?
this is a question that i &apos;m very moved by as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and most of all , in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use this interactive media , and so they can create a very satisfying experience .
because i think the interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , so thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long , very long , and that we can just bring back that through interactive media .
and that &apos;s very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech technology that you &apos;re facing , that actually brings you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
what are archaic models now ?
i wrote down four words once , and i &apos;d like to explain that for a second .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve been suited to in pre-industrial times .
one of the archaic models is that we have a fundamentally natural relationship to virtuality .
that sounds kind of unusual for the first time .
all cultures have been involved over and over again in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that , and i &apos;m going to try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since these archaic models are actually able to speak very , very visual , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the reasoning of linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we now feel the linearity normal .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information delivery .
now what about virtuality , which is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house they live in ?
that &apos;s not what we &apos;re going to be able to answer to me immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s happening right now .
they go through this house in the mind , in which they live , and look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not the technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do it all the time .
and this ability to virtualize the reality that people had to have in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photoolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory took place .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen less to sioux than they did bow and arrow tasks when americans stopped being americans when they were doing horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was rejected , and using these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge was just passed on .
and so it &apos;s also so strong in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s going on .
the interesting thing about this is that at that time , the human being was also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but i &apos;ll talk about that in a second .
crucial tool of information mediation has been stories all the time .
not change and technology threatening the integrity of the ethnosphere , it &apos;s power , the ugly face of the rule .
shamanes , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were designed to keep knowledge in stories .
and we &apos;re still very , very strong in stories today .
the author of the book &quot; the story animal , &quot; jonathan gotcha , &quot; as a result , we &apos;re still banging a thousand hours with the receptions of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the receptions of stories until the achievement of the grandchild .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
this goes back a lot , in the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s so impressive about it is that we have anchored in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought an example to you from the north american tribe of the nootka indian .
and they lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you kind of had to navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with something called lead-land maps .
you might know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , from the australian indians .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-based maps , they &apos;ve used the songlines that are like this , or gourmet .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be represented by songs .
and they were subordinated by the language of subordinated rang .
that is , you navigate across sound and across rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , enabled you to defragment these songs and to sit in a different way , and to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing more to get from top a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
it &apos;s happened to be the so-called machine age .
we &apos;ve moved before in what we call a bird age .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what happens is the book is , and it &apos;s the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened , is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have lost a piece of virtualization of god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , not the television , the internet and so on , and so on , what we call mass media today , that this mass media has fossilized our memories , and has depleted our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally , and many places as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s do a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has impacts on our thinking and our memory ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;ve been more and more exposed over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
so instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we don &apos;t produce ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language of abstract language .
we don &apos;t think of it in pictures anymore , and we don &apos;t think of it as images , but we encode it to you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to doing things linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibet if you haven &apos;t experienced it on the bottom .
and we &apos;ve accepted linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we were left with is the story story .
still , we &apos;re very , very arrested with the story as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now described what &apos;s called the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , which bring us back to these capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to just explain that a little bit .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles of chengdu in west china through southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about , 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered during the cultural revolution by the cades .
so if you look at google glass , for example , it &apos;s a concept of what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which means our affinity to virtualization , to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is being talked about again .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically into non-existential , virtual worlds , just after the model of the holodeck .
and other examples are the ambients , smart systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligently to a human being .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , which is a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second , so they can pause with the two people on the project .
and i brought this project back as an example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed .
the father of this young man was identified as the follower of the panchen lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to have a sense that some people are happy in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with some console in the hand .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s specifically meant to explore the outside world , so that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that much better , there &apos;s a lot more to it than that .
and that &apos;s about me exploring a city by looking at where places are positive or negative have been tweeted .
that meant he was immediately killed during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city in this way .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk in the sense that the characteristics and skills that we &apos;ve gotten out of the vocabulary age , and that we &apos;ve gone a little bit embarrassed in the machine age , that can be returned to what we call the cyber age , and that we can actually get back to the future in this way of complex , technological , new products , not actually , but to our roots .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very pleased to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking sack , and mine is going to talk .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how curiosity also changes the way we think , and why do we perhaps lose curiosity and have to repel it , and so on and so forth .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re dealing with , besides the actual existence , as a creator .
when professors get curious , they often get thrown in this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why are all the designers starting to deal with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are to get more intuitive , more natural , more usage friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s usable or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crimes .
and in the background , i &apos;ve been in the natural user interface design , so the next generation in the human computer in which , in the relationship of the human computer , i &apos;ve been looking at how our tools or how the computer is changing from the superconductor to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at what &apos;s natural or intuitive .
maybe you have to look back at it again .
why is that happening at all ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , which is very short , we &apos;re now moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primarily medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that is , you &apos;ve found yourself by talking a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved to the same cave , or you &apos;ve been educating cities , or you &apos;ve been creating villages , and you &apos;ve kind of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very alive .
he was smuggled into the prison at the age of two to hide under her rock cart , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn sucessive and proportionate , of course .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge cry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what &apos;s fluid and alive , i start and i crack it in stone , and i manipulate it .
and depending on how i &apos;m cuffing and when i &apos;m shooting , it &apos;s , of course , a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a way of living .
but then sucessive moved that script as a primary medium , got in .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today .
this is the printing and print coined with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just as a monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when the people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is , you know , a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really right now in this phenomenal phase that we &apos;re going to do this .
and of course , this completely confuses us , because we see , on the one hand , the new media , socil social media , facebook and so on .
the sister who did this brave , was brought into an education camp .
with total transparency , which is the new thinking , which is banging on old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat , and it &apos;s no longer beef or other beef phenomena , which is , i want to get rid of it right now , and i want to get rid of it .
and these two worlds are just knocking up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the subject of ecology is a global issue .
not when i think locally ecologically , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means that the local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , possibly , intuitively possible , but also total transparency .
as you knew back in the village , who has what happens to whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile devices on a global scale .
whether it &apos;s that we know globally , and we &apos;re getting faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped out of sight on a armband of maos , and for that treasure , she had to go to a heavy job camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
in the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , which means , actually , what &apos;s natural for us , what might we have lost , but what &apos;s instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because often people come , they can &apos;t make it usable so that everybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not only does it change that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s going to be better .
and when , of course , something is intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , influence it and design it just so that they &apos;re a usage , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
and then , even during the study , you &apos;re looking at the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i just look inside the self .
and what does it really look like ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively and how does our channels work in perception , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering can be intolerable , but the reducing spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to understand it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something usable or intuitive handable , which means at the core .
and you can see that a is our seven senses , most people think we only have five , and it &apos;s actually seven recognized , and it &apos;s certainly coming to the future of the next , age-old sense , and as an extension , again , of ourselves .
and to see , how do we process information , how do we take information ?
by itself , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but they don &apos;t know what it means .
but i have to understand , at the core , in nature , when is information going to become information , when is it going to know from information and from information , so that i know how to make things possible , intuitive , or , of course , handable .
and of course , how does design affect perception ?
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and at the end of it , we really have a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see where is salt and pepper in it .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll first think about what &apos;s in the right .
and in the left-hand side , i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in it , the salt is corresponding to it .
but also , our perception of ourselves , how it &apos;s fooling us .
for example , this perception in the context .
the right-hand circle looks bigger than the little one , even though that &apos;s not the case at all , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , who said great anthropologist before she died , is her greatest fear , that as we move towards a thread , staggerless , generic view , we would see not just the entire range of human imagination in a way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there have ever been other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle already begins to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and if i &apos;m going to keep a halboval on it , we suddenly don &apos;t just see one more unit , which is circle , circle , and yet , we see one unit , we don &apos;t see more three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
it &apos;s called gestalt law , or gestalt psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
gesture law , gesture law , continuity and so on .
often in the third , it &apos;s been forgotten .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
it sounds very banal , but it &apos;s really exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
that is , they projy an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that means we &apos;re just going to projieve our vision before we see it , put it back in the back of our seheater to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got that cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve proved what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , that &apos;s going to come back .
then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t look at the front , and says , well , really , look again , and see if what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen , and in what kind of million-second areas these things happen .
the neolithic revolution that led us to agriculture , and at that moment , we threw the cult of the seeds , the poetry of the shame through the prose of the priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- just 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture of you .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes what .
anybody see something particular ?
a dalmatiner , right .
once i see that there &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on , now you see it all the time .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually blown them up to the point where they don &apos;t recognize patterns in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning them in a very short time to see this dog in this dedicated image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m going to go forward and try to see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which are going to be in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but it &apos;s going to be here in this rosane mass .
anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge it very well waiting times in which i &apos;m going to do someone with three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he has to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant wait times , for example , on the computer when i know this phenomenon .
what does it take for fifty milliseconds ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the period in which you fall in love .
that means that , if you know that now , look at who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take any election for what can happen .
and sixteen milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the meaning of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and also , as we see things , what we &apos;re paying attention to , and how we sort of reflect ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it accordingly .
of course , the designers , not only deal with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive processing , but primarily , with the subject of the human object relationship .
so how does a human being deal with certain things .
there &apos;s a product linguistically the practical functions , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there &apos;s also symbolic functions , why is it that someone is spending on such a small valleys , where , anyway , hardly anything in it is so horror sum of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning , which we are , of course , concerned with as a creator .
so back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , usability .
usability always means , how can i get to a certain destination , or how can a user in a certain context of use be effective , efficient , satisfying .
so it &apos;s more like the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to be able to thrive in a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something usable ?
can i use that directly or need a manual or need me to have a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s more manageable .
you also have to understand that .
and then , in part , if you look at the software that we &apos;ve just seen , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is very little intuitive , or not inherent , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
in this case , intuitive usability has not only been a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental factor of success , if i want to use technology to people .
why ?
because , in general , through this new kind of usability , we &apos;re the natural user interface , for example , five times faster on the average of our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softy , it takes five hours to do this new kind of software , just for an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands , when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re likely to be allowed to go home for probably four hours , but your employer , or someone , is going to come in and do it with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a tremendous increase in performance to achieve certain things as well .
so if we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one that &apos;s already been working with the nem neural model , or mental model , like the software , eergonoma , is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic code , but a metaphor .
that made it much more usable , of course , but it &apos;s also much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is already working a lot more on behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape the behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
all of a sudden , i think it &apos;s increasingly unimportant for success , because the usability is becoming an application .
the canadian government didn &apos;t always go very well with the inuit , and over the course of the 50th years in the establishment of our ruling , they were forced to move to settlements .
and then if i go a step further into this natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m in a voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and not by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and even more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point where things are actually getting more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish my little friend here and see , what does that mean when it comes to cognition , when is it really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always intuitive for us humans when i have to think about it very little .
so , apparently , he doesn &apos;t want to think , but he does want to make it relatively easy .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean to the designer ?
that is , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use it as a creator .
that is , i can just transfer an intuitive human action model to software and make the software much more usable .
and of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us people , and now i &apos;ve already said it ?
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is what &apos;s called the osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for guidance , selective , informed , transformed .
this is what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already being exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works in the world in young and old , and it &apos;s being used all the time without most people knowing that this model is there .
osit osit is going to be about 50 to 70-odd thousand times of us ever after activity , so in the sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s then being punished less often than it is a day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , translate to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher degree of user kindness than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i orient as an overview , selected as an election , informed in the trap , it comes up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction is , i can throw it somewhere , or send it to somebody , or buy it and so on .
then i can transmit this whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we &apos;re capable of as an astonishingly wisshabit species .
the family who was afraid of his life took all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten a pie .
oversight : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out again , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , i can now filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the chocolate thing .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can reach the things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than when you can get over hierarchical websites or other mechanisms , in a way , make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with this phrase , i &apos;d like to conclude , a and again , to give the clues , designers have to think differently , to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i &apos;d like to thank you very much for your attention and your attention .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first thing that , when you &apos;re a child , as a baby , is that you take care of what secrets you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play more or less in the pottery , the more , of course , your curiosity is woven .
and curiosity can &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold , and they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m about basically putting this whole environmental discussion , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , into quality .
and there &apos;s a central point here .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give you + give you about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bone .
we could only glide as an amorph of mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the slides of their sleeve were originally made out of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take phosphorus and give it away .
what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re looking at something that would actually be self-understanding , but it &apos;s not that way .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we &apos;ve only got phosphorus for two years , and already , through the phosphorus mining of the world , much more uranium is brought to the environment than is used in all the nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , 5,000 tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the falling storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way i would say , shoot your child , just beat it three times instead of five .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weighs to the bathroom , our whole earth will be sooner or later a cemetery .
that &apos;s why you think about the weigh to the weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the soil , more than 60 percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , he left his pants out of seaweed , and he put them in his hand , and when the feces started to freeze , he formed them in the form of a knife .
right now , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30-pound tons per hectare , or also calculating the square meter .
that is , we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than is reformed .
we can , of course , look at the garbage problem .
and it &apos;s all packaged or content .
for example , in the open stream , 20 percent of the garbage is wind in between .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of you in the pre-wind period .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalien knife , and when it was frozen , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
this is a proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
let me tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement to the pigs over the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s the evidence , isn &apos;t it ?
he took the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the skeleton of the dog , and he improvised a sleeve , and he got another dog , and he swore over the ice customs with the fecalien knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental discussion , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you tell the people to exist , if you say that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;re going to be refining and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , you say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
this is where it says the more you &apos;re killing , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , as far as they are vegetarian .
that is , the ants weigh a lot more than us .
that &apos;s how you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work more physically than we do , and because they only live three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in the energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are from what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see , for example , that openness has a program , until 20 , you want to be a climate-neutral here , right ?
you can only be a climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that is , all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this is a symbol , in many ways , of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
fortunately not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem in trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
have you ever heard of some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most striking bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that would really have to go back into circles .
and with that , we &apos;re too many .
just about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit back in april 1999 full control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-landing , there &apos;s no bioland , there &apos;s no natural progression , and as they all say , that allows our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest thing is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was highly rejected , it happened at the ethnosphere -- only at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve this at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste directly .
in china , a night victim is still called honey potters , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we &apos;ve always been too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilizational story is that the city has always taken off , but has never given back to the farmers .
so cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they all control minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded until they &apos;re out of infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to get the nutrients back for five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , when you &apos;re invited to eat , china is expected to be looking for food until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
you &apos;ve invited them to eat , not for nutrient theft .
that is , you can see , on the internet , how to regain the nutrients .
the really nice thing is , if you do this , agriculture , biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , you can get a farmer about a thousand-and-a-half thousand dollars and you can wait for them to grow chickens and pigs and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate goes back to the favelas by over ninety-nine percent .
an amazing example of how a nation , a state that can seek and achieve rehabilitation with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities are carrying themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that is , the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred and a half in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been saboted .
you could just throw in a liter allel so easily , and then the facility would be ruined over years .
don &apos;t happen .
that is , we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they have not gone at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something about it , you write down , in germany , the best way to do it is by all the enlightenment facilities in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the frankfurters a little bit .
because the fraud plant could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see this as the fact that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been in holland now over three years .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
but we need it all together .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70-percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus benefits .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six-legged countries that control 40 percent of the oil reserves .
and the oil we &apos;re going to be able to replace with other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and it &apos;s first of all to ask what &apos;s the right thing to do .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s very effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
there it is .
it &apos;s not scientifically accurate , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
so , what is the right thing to ask ?
not to burn the enlightenment mud a little bit better and recharge it , and to lose all the materials in the burn facility , but to first ask , how do you close the cycles ?
imagine mozart being efficient .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , huh ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world , and our website is getting 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that is , all that counts in life is not to save , to avoid .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
in every place you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities for life .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a trash problem .
in the way we think of north .
that &apos;s where each footprint is disadvantaged .
156 nations send our television channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the ground is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heartfelt , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , avoiding , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see it in italy , like the people in the high bow are throwing out of the car like this .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refourth behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
no biologist , for example , would claim that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to die , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is almost unknown as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re taking a series of trips to the ethnosphere , where we take our audiences to places like this , cultural wonder , that they &apos;re blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one after the other , they &apos;re going to embrace the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserves to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world in which the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it takes off everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants , so they can contribute to biodiversity by throwing away .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all supposed to be composable , of course .
a tv set or a washing machine , because they &apos;re just using it , they &apos;re not using it .
just the things that shrink , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , have to be that they go to biological systems .
the things that are just being used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for you to help this company successfully make these products happen .
because we don &apos;t make things more free .
yes ?
so , when i invite you to eat and say , that &apos;s free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we figure out what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a single year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment in which they can either handle local or distant with vast amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in it that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian pile and the rubber can go into biological circles , right ?
all of it is composable of it .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and for mauritz and for the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s sewage problems caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they &apos;re helping with them , ask people what to do .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the board twice now .
and i &apos;m not sure you &apos;re really here .
so , help me a little bit .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can get seamlessly and continuously , shrinking , in any way rearranging .
but it does .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been shown .
this is going on .
we can do things now so that , if they veil , if they break , they can go into biological circles .
there are technical cycles as well .
there &apos;s a direct spinal cord system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , which is designed to go back into the circulation .
again , so in any store , you can get things back .
if you come up with that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the winch again ?
right now , when the garbage is .
all over the place , these diapers are close .
in the countries where people come from .
that &apos;s where the deponia are , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside that you can go back to cellulosic base , then you can plant hundreds of trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
just when you take this winch , you shrink it , you sterilize it and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the very beginning .
so we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a domain of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , in a way .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
meanwhile , a lot of people are working there , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra bond , cradle to cradle , where anyone can join in .
so not saving more , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can constrain the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpreter .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it says that as an interpreter , i understand myself as a translator , in the english word .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the word &quot; text &quot; into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and wortzuship , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
now , translation from german into english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re about poetry , or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for laypeople , what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes first .
you think the composer has written into the notes exactly everything he &apos;s imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly commuted , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green , not to hear the sawdust of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpreter has to translate these exact features of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to translate to you what i otherwise do to musical translation , so interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation translation .
so i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally significant for me to translate the translation .
so the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes , and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that &apos;s just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the meaning of the letters is only when you can see the language .
so it takes the learning process of music to be at least as long as the spoken language .
there &apos;s also degradation , whether it &apos;s learning to use it , understanding it passively , or you can also speak actively , to the musical mother &apos;s linguistic .
the work of the interpreter begins very much like a theater director .
after you first choose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re first exploring the backgrounds of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , keyboards , notes , or there are words , thoughts of the composer itself .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you make comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
the motions to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think in that time , by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpreter , you have a rich knowledge about the composer that you &apos;re playing more and more often , and it makes you easier to think in and feel in .
the composer is becoming a friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the composer &apos;s cause , but only a scaffold , i now turn on this scaffold to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this scaffold .
and the key indicator for this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i &apos;m going to play through what these sounds might have meant .
now for me and for the composer at the time and what they might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase , gets a sense , because i feel it myself , because it jumps out of my own right now .
it has to be true for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working on for as long as i &apos;ve been able to reexperience .
how to reexperience a happy new day over and over again , even though with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same thing over and over again .
i &apos;ve grown a day older , changing seasons , my pulse goes slower than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than home .
i notice the audience breathing , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this impacts me and all of this also affects my composition experience .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , reasonable conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and in the same time , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we haven &apos;t tried and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s very fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have then experienced how music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play like that moment .
i can &apos;t play as much as i do in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore , on my palette of music sound , i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , but i &apos;m going to get new ones .
have a nice example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students at my beloved old teacher , professor jelt ude , a well-known beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longevity professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was much too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was fortunate enough to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was already at my school class .
i was seventh when i went back to one of his classes , and i played the last four ballads of chopin , a later work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballet was for me .
this is such a tragic part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was , like , like that ?
that has to be the age difference .
because to me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a piece .
he was already over 60s .
well , with seventh , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have major memories .
i play the piece every few years , and it has changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because over and over , i read something new .
an example of this from a very different area . monet painted the seerose x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but in different days , in different light .
he transferred the seeroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they did at that moment on him .
his personal impressions of the seeroses .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to that .
by now , i &apos;m also older than chopin with two and a half years old when he wrote that piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real journal or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
it &apos;s only lived for 30 years .
and it &apos;s important for me to keep looking in the notes , even though i mean , to memorize them .
to keep twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he &apos;s died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
and then if all the fingers are in time and right , as it is in the notes , sounds come out , and they sound like music together .
when the student gets error , the student gets up the next difficult piece .
it &apos;s barely spoken about early education .
all right , there &apos;s a presto on the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and loud signs , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know .
but even if you implement these attacks , it &apos;s still just a little bit technical .
and yet , it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false display with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i &apos;m wondering that you often forget something very elementary .
that is that to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend to do it themselves .
that &apos;s like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experience and the idea of music , and then to have it through another possibility , so through an instrument , to sound .
people who &apos;ve never been singing have never felt instantly with their own body , as it is , to form a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the constant coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is platged when you &apos;re constantly accused with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask you can &apos;t sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
in both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to find out if they can &apos;t , or learn , how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal corners .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained to them that they &apos;re inevitable .
and i ask , how professionally competent was this diagnosis ?
have you had a second or third opinion , as you say , beautiful today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore nix wants to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a reckless candidate .
but please don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really picks up these ideas , these constraints for the place that &apos;s available on the screen .
and i answer that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think it says somebody , i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t quit food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get away from classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether you like it or not .
whether the music is too peppered or too sweet .
tell you what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want a little more spices there , or they even taste fine differences .
now , why do i demand for my audience to listen to this ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that it doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- that shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
an artwork that you never look at has no power to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef needs to be eaten and not just looked at or replaced .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if you have an environment where the adults make music , or at least listen to active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play it in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , instead of a red flower , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different than it did before .
so that was the very first beginning of a personal expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have evolved .
there was no piano at all right now as an instrument .
it was just not invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had had the sound of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the sound notions that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t make .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had already become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that a orchestra has rejected at the time as unplayable .
so the composers depend on us are interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so that you can hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think of today in the mind .
or what i &apos;m thinking about today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s tilting ?
have you ever been envy ?
and what did that feel like ?
suck .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
so when i come , with my little v piesel and i get it wrong , this feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s.a .
i say , ulf , what do you need to do with this big car ?
now , that loses half of its value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than i did .
why do i have to afford that little car ?
and then i immediately come to mind , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word &quot; justice , &quot; that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as envy to disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or profit or something like that .
i want to tell you something about this mechanism today or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
conversations up at the top of nasa &apos;s outrageous picture .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lie as you may have heard when people say nobody has the intention to build a wall .
and then stones , so he locks them up the eyes .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not yourself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to sustain a lie of life , to sustain self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or collapse .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
this time , an anecdote , which you might know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait would not look like her .
picasso reply , just wait .
it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
at this point , and when you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time you need to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist shares something with you , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist divides you in a portrait like this , something you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it can &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is even live on the internet . you can check it out .
here they have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifestyle .
and not only in art , also in folk , in which mythology , it appears in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from this real place , also the mirror can &apos;t lie out of that true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do under politically correctness .
we need this lie at this point that holds the deception to us without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in the folk session , but in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story about the woman of the bischoir of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey , and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of something if it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that livelihood .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , from something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , a stone comparable , and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student in washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we have to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to resolve and what the traces that it leaves are going to lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to bring you to another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a tendency for sincere .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification uses the word because , we should try to replace it by the word .
do that once and then learn the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotech things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the space .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about the firemen .
he &apos;s interested in fire .
but there are no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he was signing up .
and overall , you don &apos;t say to your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere , and you &apos;re delighted when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can only do when they lay fires .
here they have this little mechanism .
this evidence that , in the heart of the bub , knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps right away without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know that they look very different , so they can sound much better for you and others .
and then you just get those words that we use in the language of politically correct speech over and over again .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of the multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we &apos;ve found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the ones that we actually know in the unconscious sense that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
i want to show you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example predicts what many of you know and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like that , says , leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not a stopp of material , material nature .
and if you have people who are in favor of the strong belief that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as if the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not from matter , they themselves from meat and blood , something stone , sort of bound to the earth , decent , devastating , unimportant , dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and from this soul , you think that in some way , in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called latin , which is present .
and if that windshield poisons over the human being , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , yeah with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so she &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to perceive them as something that &apos;s supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have that premise in front of you , then you understand the logic with which we experience that happiness , through a lie , to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you still know three phrases from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic to us .
the computer vision algorithms have put these pictures together so that they can match the real space in which these images that have all been taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things have all been put together in a space with each other .
that &apos;s the hardest part in my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but you also need the willingness to lie .
that is to lie so that you can just apply that logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences occur .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if candy is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted him in particular here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say , who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
this is where this logic comes from in this , yes , in this deception speech .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say , the cancers are a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the cancers are a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the cancers are not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t say anything about what &apos;s true .
there are those who are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so if klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he has no soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our fake consciousness immediately feels like you can make something out of it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends to be the opposite of the first sentence already proven and assured .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether there &apos;s the soul or not .
but with this logic that it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third adding that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on in summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , photosynth-technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things to happen in different examples .
in the present , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daytime .
and you have to think of another philosophical issue , a permanent burning subject from philosophy , present .
that has to do with us going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact middle between two identical hayhairs , it will harbor .
we had to worry about lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how the natural things are presented .
the same big forces with opposing signs are dissolving each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if you make the haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need a reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
he automatically runs to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , you &apos;re determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , you also have the sense that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and he &apos;s sometimes told , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who only happened in the computer with images of flickr . just type in notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;re going to get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site and so on . each of these orange biscuits represents a picture that was heard as being heard to this model .
now we can rebuild the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daytime newspaper is what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of willingness , can &apos;t be pulled to account for his actions and claims , and therefore he &apos;s unaccountable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove that there &apos;s something like freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of preceding is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , once you meet a human being that you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is called prophet .
so these are all flickr pictures , and they &apos;re all in the space in this way .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically correct .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they will be experiencing one , for which there are , of course , those predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and you &apos;ve got a problem .
because while they &apos;re busy making sure they can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about this because he &apos;s deceived them .
because he &apos;s led them to a tracker where he doesn &apos;t stop himself at all .
because , in fact , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from having to prove that there are predictions .
so , in the way that the evidence shifts , you experience the brilliance of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember their self-lies that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good day .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention it .
she &apos;s one of the creators here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea .
i have to say , you know , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might like to introduce my island project that i &apos;m trying to introduce you to .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably here , the two nice girls are still there , and i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been sued for this bad oily image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in cardboard , technical college , which i think is kit .
and then it beat me to berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and that &apos;s not what it was in the cardboard .
you know , i never believed i was going to end up working at microsoft .
there was a nuclear research facility called leopoldshafen .
they were all kfa , and the jewish one was called kfa .
they &apos;re now called project carriers .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but a doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which kind of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , that was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy collectively of engineering .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry fall , you couldn &apos;t use the word at all because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t that way in the &apos; 90s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in crossberg in the multiplicity yard , where you thought evil was .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called the flattering tronics , and it made wind and sunenergy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yeah , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , and that was basic democratic .
we were 20 people .
when one said no , the vetoprinzip , it &apos;s totally crashed you . i &apos;ve been hard to doubt for 10 years , whether i &apos;m going to waste my great engineering study , perhaps , to a peculiar thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window with your child .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and that was really very , very bitter , and then you get into that kind of phase , and it just showed up a picture where i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marks , that was still , you know , basic wage , lonely in the collective , of course , if that really should be that great .
and i stopped it until sixty-six , and then , along with friends , i became a co-founder of the company of solon , who then became one of the largest cell makers in the world with spin-off q-cells .
a huge energy story , but again , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small and go back and devote ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , what we &apos;re looking at , it &apos;s equally crazy again , and that &apos;s going to start by saying , what &apos;s the quatch , that &apos;s not going to happen , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
i guess you can see that these are many different types of cameras : everything is in the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them all have been flipped together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple crazy story , where could you use a memory meaningfully today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a fifteen percent renewable energy rate today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when you build more wind , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershof our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculate that , in 2006 , the first contacts started with the island , just calculate .
how big a battery would have to be , in fact , to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventh percent renewable .
and yeah , i &apos;ll go on a slide again .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts per year are added to the same base of the world .
that &apos;s the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very quick everywhere .
many of you are covered in faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is being deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s going fast .
you put it in a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
there are always three of the ones that are going on , two of them are always waiting .
yeah , this is what a load is down there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind system , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only eat in small quantities here .
our goal was to say , okay .
the one is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger portion .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the power at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can actually take over the whole net .
you can only do that , of course , if you &apos;re manned in any way here .
nobody in the world has done that .
this is a little style , so you can also use your razor in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershof ?
that &apos;s going on .
but if you want to assemble several of these intersections , and you want them to build a web , it becomes extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seventh to ninety-nine percent renewable , and then there &apos;s the rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , that you &apos;re going to make it out of batteries .
this is definitely going to be an energy carrier , who then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you or shit , that &apos;s going to be it .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was recorded properly .
you have to go to a seasonal memory , and you have to go to winter summer , not just the day night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and the wind and the sun and the load went through and came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that , after 20 years , you have to get a medieval rice of about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents a mile .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
negotiating with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social sheep .
we were only five people then to rebuild the society .
and again , the representation .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which the electric company on the island , has meant that we love it .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe that you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical ratios of the island to one in three very precisely .
that is , we first looked for the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment , and it &apos;s now collected data from all of them -- from the whole collective memory of what the earth looks like visually -- and everything is connected together .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bc mannheim , now abb , and then licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it has a megawatt performance , and it can do it for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of the simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we &apos;ve also brought one of these same aggregate at the same size that it &apos;s standing there , into the hall , to actually simulate the full dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the one in the back , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the more controversial ones that we simulate the web .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of the cable , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means in which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all these photographs are interconnected , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , we see the diesel again , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since two thousand , the hall has been finished , until now , two-thousand-and-a-half , basically everything that was here between the single system of electronics , in software , we &apos;ve done it .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the subject of battery and the subject of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty is that , in fact , on this island today , everything you can take away from the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to move back and forth right now , energy , how is it going to go , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent accurate energy , so we &apos;re tiring the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart grid , a huge issue everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , ask the question , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re 70-percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without storage .
you get a model that comes out of all over the earth .
you can do it through the n smart-grid , you can do it by expanding the nets , yes , you should do it , by listening to the percentage , but you will never be able to get rid of the memory .
and so that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made up of noisy , rotating masses of big power plants , where the wave is always rotating around europe .
we look in this web , we see the fifty hertz , and if it becomes ninety-nine comma , we &apos;re going to catch up a few valves , then we &apos;re going to go back in a little bit of a merh steam , then we &apos;re going to get back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , that &apos;s incredible talks .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
consider this the sequel of the work by stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with productivity electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds out with this big battery .
and then you can see what there are enormous speed possibilities .
and the message is , we need to get rid of these rotating masses , if we &apos;re kind of 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply , the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate at the moment , growing the coal power plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gasturbating , because it &apos;s not going to happen .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by putting electrochemical storage on the web .
and luckily , there &apos;s a whole bunch of studies .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use , is growing , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and then , for that purpose , people always come and look at our subjects , sort of , our insurgency .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take away a piece of future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaic .
if you don &apos;t , it &apos;s insane , child toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is a role model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical storage around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to happen .
there &apos;s going to be a whole bunch of resistances and arguments .
the beauty is that i &apos;ve actually experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are being filled with metadata that another person has given in .
we &apos;ve now got over 10 million promoting projects , also to climb 10 megawatt-battery to the german web .
this will happen next april .
so you also realize that there &apos;s a change going on , and only from this defense , to yes , to this idea , a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autarque system .
so far , in discussions , these insulators , they &apos;re doing autark , they have their own little web , and that has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is very simple , if you &apos;re completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy , which is going to be drilled out anywhere in the world and brought to you , then you &apos;re an island .
then you only use what &apos;s in the sun and the wind where you live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful for cradle to cradle that they said , using solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing , and that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing , and that &apos;s where the talk of premium cola , is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and you can also have a vision .
when someone has struggled and labeled all of these sacred people and shared who they are , my photograph of the dame-cathedral suddenly comes in with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which uses photos of other people , and make a kind of cross-model social experience using other providers .
and you really have to be quite tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist the los angeles times , one day went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two more strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steve &apos;s article about it , a book that was later filmed , with robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied at juilliard-conservatory , and whose promising career tragically ended early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , had a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless people on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend you all to read steve &apos;s book or look at the movie , so you can understand not only the wonderful connectedness that came out of these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was ultimately the instrument , when this word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine me .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never get into baseball world series , and all of this because of the great passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct of all of these are the vast wealthy virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been preserved by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we came up with music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in self-education .
i have to mention that nathaniel had a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s particularly vulnerable now to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , wandering around in the streets of skid row , always exposing this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in just as a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this missile fluke in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not opinionally , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could fall into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship with the violin , if i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardens .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that there was a complete change going on in nathanium &apos;s eyes .
it was like he was standing under the impact of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and began to play some snippets of violin concert , and then asked me to end them : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pecca .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge about music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i don &apos;t know from my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , excellent , in juilliard , trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
so , do i get it right ? your software allows you to at a certain point in time , in the next few years , all of the images that are being used by someone in the world together are basically linked together ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can form something that &apos;s inside us all , deep inside , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the exhausting power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen , unfortunately , the cellist .
yeah . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
that first one , that was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , delicious , good consistency , sustainable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel like you &apos;re selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do a session about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want it to create hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem for our chefs was : how do we keep fish on our menus ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the heavy fish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , probably or bad aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments about it . fishing plants are polluting the environment , most of them , and they &apos;re inefficient , we &apos;re taking tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got 15 to one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of tuna .
and she does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so there was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing in the ocean so far outside that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we are so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of ourselves .
that food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and this is really exciting when you think about the abundance of semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put on .
and that evening , i was in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , don &apos;t call .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he doesn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to demand .
now , i phones with a couple of people in the company , and nobody could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the senior biologist .
like if you do a web search for images , where you put in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
let &apos;s also call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what &apos;s sustainable to feed chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture connects you to all your pictures ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-serving and a well-being .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish because , i swear to god who has smeared fish after that conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i ate it first in a south spain restaurant .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shining white color .
then the scale of the semantic cross-connected and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold it twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it was cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat cattle on what were basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatting the country .
they built this complicated consequence of canals , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t do that , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally flipped the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the canals to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , sea , shrimp , aal -- and his company completely reversed miguel and his ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is flood channels and these density , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there for a long time with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part &quot; a crocodile for kissing . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we were fighting through the wetlands , and i was crooking and sweating , and i have a mud up to my knees , and miguel is holding a biologic lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve heard before , and i &apos;m going to try to create some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here , he &apos;s highlighting a rare equilibrium .
now he &apos;s mentioning the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more just rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , which was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head got weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had in the evening .
so i interrupted him . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so well ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing like ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-replicating .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
later on a day , i went around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was like a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we looked at the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pinker flamingos , a literally pink carpet as far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your bellies , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you drag your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent from our fish and fish to the birds .
now last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish farm ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensive .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pinnacle the better the system is . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly due to the maximization of the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators .
it &apos;s a fish elevator , but it &apos;s also a bird reserve .
oh , by the way , these flamingos should not even be there before .
they breed in a city of 240 miles away , where the ground quality is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and they fly back 240 miles every night .
they do that because they can follow the striked white line of the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of trip of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly back 240 miles a night ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an unprecedented premise for the human being .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as though i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . they do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this bittering , coiled taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t swallow for fish skin at all .
she tasted sweet and sweetheart , like taking a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is acting for ourselves to do the things that maximize our well-being and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to see uncleaned things . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water has no uncleaners . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success in the success of its predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that doesn &apos;t have any uncleaners , it underdrives tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the guadalquivir river .
it &apos;s a river that takes all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this leaves the water clean than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only a farm that feeds its animals , not just a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for those fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and i should do it , because this love story , as romantic as it is , is also a revelation .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about barch or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re enjoyers . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that ensure the future of good food , someone stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in the distribution , not the total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question , because it has determined the logic of our food system over the last 50 years .
feeding crops to plant predators , pest controllers to monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how awful can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a currency in wrap-up , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that allows that production to happen .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is now threatened , not because of degrading supply , but because of degrading resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deeply in our water supply that it would not come to mind any question .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it &apos;s never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s the one that goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
operations that are not worlds for themselves , operations that are restoring instead of consuming , operations that are expanding extensively , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts at taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i will ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to suggest to you today that the total of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overlapping , i want you to think about how we can use information , that patterns emerge , and we recognize trends that would otherwise not have become visible .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical mortality diagram ordered by age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , say accidents .
and immediately , i see a different pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle here , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what gives us modern progress .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer is the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we go on and we sort at age , we say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should worry about .
and if you go on to research , this is particularly true of men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way reminds you of swimming very much in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here are the cover pictures of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re no longer taught to young children , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , which is where all the expenses that lance armstrong is mentioned to me .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with the bike ride ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take another view .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom out , you don &apos;t want to or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salad ressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and we &apos;ve reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just going to show the top 500 of the most popular wikipediases .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediakatrics that are the most covering time magazine is &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipedias .
that &apos;s just to see if you go back and look at the whole thing .
so looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essig that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time as if it &apos;s a web , not just from page to page , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump directly to a specific section .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in on a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding up to this point .
and i can kind of recover everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and , if i go back and look at everything , i can rearrange my course , maybe my search past . here , i looked for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here for bing , &apos; or here for live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the page and call it back up .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time the whole picture makes it bigger than the sum of the databases .
right now , in this world , we think data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the flow of information .
we talk about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and see patterns that would have otherwise been hidden ?
if we can do that , then this database is going to become a new source of information .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , we might even be able to pull wisdom out of it .
so i stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a hearing portion of science fiction .
in my school , i went to school with the bus , one hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science-fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts in other worlds , and in a narrative way satisfied my deep sitting in me , unsawed curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i was walking through the forests and gathering &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and beetles and dough water , brought home and looked at under the microscope .
i was totally science excited , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my surroundings , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science-fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this oversaw with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my reaction to that was to draw and paint from alien , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook , painting around .
creativity had to get out in some way .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteau &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
surely , i would never reach an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed quite unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually walk into here on earth , and it was as fascinating and exotic as all the things that i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , a thousand miles away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself discourage .
i annoyed my father until he finally found a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border , where we lived .
i made my trading line in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been disputed , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as we can &apos;t imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the fantasy of nature doesn &apos;t know any boundaries , as opposed to our own human imagination .
until today , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean stops with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i was an adult , i went to a job , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to unite my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that was the fit .
of course , the stories i chose were from the science-fiction area , &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at abyss , i was able to connect my preference for the underwater world , and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions were kind of intertwining .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : in order to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took on computer-generated animation , cg , back .
and what came out of that was the first computer-generated software surface-figure ever to see in a movie .
the movie didn &apos;t bring in any money , in fact , he just played his production cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , famously advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the type of liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would come .
and it worked . again , we created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world had reached , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best make-up and creature designer at the time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers and so on and start right with digital productions .
and we did that , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature- and third-design -- which we had actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; that the measurement of visual effects and computer-generated effects should be all over new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made by cg , and the main figures should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the bar was pretty much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we were not necessarily able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and juliet on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film epic , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by the silence , to be one of the last of your people to speak your language , to have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i &apos;ve convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the movie .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good retailer for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but this goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian submersible , four miles below the surface of the north atlantic , and looked at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation was enormous . we had to build cameras and shell and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep sea dives , like a space mission .
well , they were also high-tech and enabled extensive planning .
you go up into this capsule , and then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you can &apos;t get it back yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was basically obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite selection of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before , and for science , at the time that we saw it , i hadn &apos;t found words at all .
so that really resonated with me , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started diving to the bismarck , and we studied them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it , so we developed the technology .
well , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are very similar to these boards , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just kidding it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjí-vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i got around a corner , i always knew what was going to happen in the light cone of the vehicle , because i had run over the movie set for months .
because the set was an accurate copy of the building plans of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
it made me realize this telepresence experience that you use such robotic avatars and so your consciousness can move into the vehicle into this different form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all kinds of post-human-to-future scenarios that i can think of as a science-fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we began to really appreciate what we had seen down there , for example , these deep-sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playwright , nase-hair trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and this is how you see animals that are right next to a 500 degree celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction effect of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space , and who are involved with nasa , and who are in nasa , and are sitting in the nasa expertise , and are planning real space missions , and they &apos;re going to russia , and they &apos;re going through the mission to go through the biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going to go through it , and they &apos;re going to go to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , it was that i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , take samples and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but we did science , in fact , in particular : space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this before in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think that a director has to be able to lead , to be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much of leadership until i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s coming out of it ? &quot;
these stupid films don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . from fame , no trace .
everybody thinks i &apos;ve gone away from titanic and avatar , and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no glory , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it gets people to walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task , for the challenge of it -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that you have . you do it for the discovery , and for the strange connection that emerges when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all of this with only 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were in the lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a job that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to the country and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound , and all the way around it , all the technology , and all the difficulty , the human performance , if you work on the lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain it to others . that &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have been through something in common and know that they can never explain it to anybody .
there is a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you earn respect in the opposite of the respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a little team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to that question is ?
and we became a real family for a period of four and a half years .
so it changed my way of making films , completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d been doing really well and transporting these oceans to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a fundamental way of doing my job , the actual process that changed in the outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the contempt of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me an advice about how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
that &apos;s what others get for you . don &apos;t do it for yourself , don &apos;t bet for yourself , but take risks for you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploration , failing has to be an alternative , because it guarantees a trust proposition .
no important endeavor that demanded innovation was ever taken without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with , and failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time employment at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to allow the things that we need to invent and deliver to allow the poorest two billion to live a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , actually more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years , it &apos;s going to rain too much or too little , and things are going to change in the way that their fragile environment cannot sustain .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , you &apos;re going to get a terrible climate change .
and also , the energy cycle is very important for them .
the fact is , if you could only reduce the price of one thing , to reduce poverty would be by far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy progress .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly man dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language to the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more important than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we cut the price down -- let &apos;s cut the price down half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they summarize the exposed co2 , which leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature elevation has some very negative consequences . effects on weather and perhaps worse , the indirect consequences that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting in temperature change and where the other consequences are , there are some unclarity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these are going to follow , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad !
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t it half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to be under a 30-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath it .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go all the way down , to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american , about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to produce changes that go down to zero .
it &apos;s been increasing all the time .
only different economic changes have affected it at all , and we need to go from rapidly to reducing and reducing to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses , on average , on average , on average , on average , on every service and on co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor , and look at how we get it to zero .
probably one of those numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , they go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it goes to nine billion . it goes to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but at the moment we &apos;re seeing a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothes , television , heating .
these are very good things , and reducing poverty means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make disputes and use less , but on average , that number is going to go up every year and doubt as much as the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here &apos;s a very fundamental service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the building of the house , there are many services that can reduce some individual services by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizers making , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three or maybe even a factor six .
but for the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to perhaps the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and that &apos;s going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of if you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and the service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and you say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually you &apos;re just wrong , and some of them are coming , some of them are not .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that the release of fireflies would be my contribution to the environment this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told that they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they all don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have a unimaginable scale and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they might do a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re shy to us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there seems to be simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after you burn , and you get under pressure , and then you get somewhere , and then you hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do it at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but get it to 100 percent , and get it very difficult to do it , and get an agreement on the co2 storage is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the payback time question .
who &apos;s going to make sure ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions and billions of times bigger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulation countries , the question of security that you really feel that nothing can go wrong despite the human contribution that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solved , and that &apos;s why you should work on them .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies are creating is dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you say , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , thousands of times more land than a normal power plant .
the other thing is , these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem to be shining every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t always hurt .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is out of the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you need to deal with the risk of energy coming from where else .
and there &apos;s the warehouse problem .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : those for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
that &apos;s what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to rely on it by 100 percent , you need an incredible battery of wonder .
now , where are we going to go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on it . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many people will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people who are already involved in this ted group .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , that has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; the world wouldn &apos;t be a better place if we were all talking one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be canton .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely ill , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development of this industry stopped a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right materialistic approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn these 99 percent , it &apos;s much better for cost .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a propulsion fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is consumed gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a &quot; walking wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called consumed uranium .
that drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you just filter ocean water cheap and easy , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s lifetime .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean .
so , in order to reach these 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely translate their electricity generation .
the other note says whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get them to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
when we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency of getting reductions on the way , the less we emitt , the less the carbon sum is going to be , and the temperature is going to be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions is just the same , or even a little less important , as the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are many great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &apos; &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework where this can be discussed in broad ways , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that have to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we &apos;re inventing this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through co2 , i &apos;ll discover that wish , i &apos;ll take that wish .
it has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term thinking is going to be terrible , between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of the lives of those two billion are going to be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice as to how this slide should show .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i appealing to ?
we have to go to more research funding .
when countries get together in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low funds spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market tires , tax co2 , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we have to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you !
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 1000s million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , the regularians and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s done , as i promised , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
in order to understand that , it means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process begins up and continues to work down ?
bg : right . now you have to keep refilling the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong , this thing where you open it up and bring things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that buried it without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there , and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s finished .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor , which even provides a solution to the waste .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors , what we &apos;re doing in our filling , and it &apos;s dramatically reduced the volume of waste during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people around the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet found ourselves in a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting openings for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; -- there &apos;s a big interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese did something in the direction .
this is a variant of a thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability to really make this happen ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , stream-generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then we have 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we have to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds that , if their approaches work , can provide the promotion for their pilots .
and it would be the best way to do it , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
so , according to the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : a breakthrough of energy is the most important .
it would have been without environmental demands , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s a modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type , which seems a little hard , but they might say that about us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , is the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re just about to have a heart attack , and then what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research facility called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work first on insurance , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things get faster , or that innovation needs longer than we expect .
climate change deniers : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have later on -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let it be . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that , if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it emitting co2 , i almost wish it would do it , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the björn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , reducing poverty , fighting malaria , and so on , there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money on it , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual research spending -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
other things should not suffer .
you get too much money , and here &apos;s a reasonable person , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to finance that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
except , you &apos;re very close to a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing our lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful smart students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks .
his new flavor is now , &quot; why is it that research is not being talked about anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought process that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about 1-foot tape , about 1-foot threads and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be up there .
and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
you &apos;re talking about it , you &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and they expose spaghetti .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of growing structures .
and finally , just before you have no time , someone takes the marshmallow , and you put it carefully on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; ! admire your work .
but then , almost always , what happens is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to fade and collapse .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy doing other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a series of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst , there are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they make really skillful shapes .
and of course , there are teams that have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but they also produce the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how is this ? why ? what about these ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
then what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and they build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with each attempt , the children get immediate feedback , what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most people is about five inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who &apos;s the most successful ?
they &apos;re all very involving questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-empowering geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is a little bit about average . but here it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills for processing .
they conduct the process , they understand it .
and that team that regulates and focuses on the work is going to significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you and not get a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six , that have stable structures .
i was trying to do something interesting .
i thought we &apos;d do the same thing with poker use .
so i offered a $ 10,000 software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody had built a two-inch construction , they would have paid the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated that practice with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute of every day from every place on the planet -- to the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple practice .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about that the wiring plan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend to have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose , because i &apos;ve asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there was cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that you &apos;ve kind of moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then all of a sudden you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you , because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities don &apos;t go back on this planet , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that you &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you put : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is , this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions in terms of work , over and over again , whether we should work or should not work .
so there should be a nine in the beginning of my death row .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . the smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we &apos;ve forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that have barely been threatened by millions of us before one generation .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on another , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphtery , tuteln , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are the successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying things out is to see if it works , if it doesn &apos;t do it , is to change one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all the good news , because there &apos;s a couple of other problems , and they &apos;ve been often mentioned .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s damaging .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastating this world .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t get out of this chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is , can we do that ? i think we can do that .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land they live on .
i think we can supply this world with energy that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder thinking .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as we do , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can do today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve struggled with progress , where we &apos;ve driven over these things more severe , to more fronts than now .
people wrap up in their faith , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free it .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right to ?
they don &apos;t have a right to do their own facts . &apos; debt , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to bump into resistance , to resistance to what ended up being the most effective thing in health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i do , i wrote an article and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article on genetically engineered food .
same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i wrote an article about this too , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were going to move around in a certain way , rather than a random way of getting a handle on nature &apos;s area .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be your experience of the football game of your child very different than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on doing it .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we pass in , we eat out , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking twin about it .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with little instructions about this : &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call a couple of names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask evidence , ask evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take that evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masser , mumps , and root vaccine .
very scary .
hence studies were conducted to see if that was true .
hence studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government leader who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a matter of choice .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where vaccines are falling .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody here have masses ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anybody die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 per hour .
but because this hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t combine cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never are the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and it &apos;s very quick .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no torture , child paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i &apos;d like to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey across the ethnosphere , to try to understand what has actually been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
it can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , except that paul &apos;s walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take it away , you go back to the diseases , horrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening .
we now have masses in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitary of mine wrote to me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little bit too shrimp . &quot;
nobody has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have a child &apos;s paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning is going on an airplane , and he &apos;s going to los angeles right now , he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you to jump .
i know they did it because half the americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take the alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i agree with you all .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a government too strong . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed rather than liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishing cold and soulful to ourselves , who can afford it .
so we &apos;re going to run away , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what do you care ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to decide at all .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health , who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any cancer-quality salber who wants to treat his patients with caffs .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic are replacing evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they come to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone smoke and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can brake the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that gets worse than any other one of these diseases .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponents of genetic engineering and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study on volunteer aging .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersily , every rose flour , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it more closely , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people expand their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to vanguard &apos;s investment records , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is , too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , which is wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was , per 10 investment fund , which the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work , because we &apos;re afraid of a real , and it keeps millions of people from blooming up .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees take part than if they just offered five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bundle of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all that in it .
and then people could eat , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
now , there are some of us who , in a sense , forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i really mean different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investments that are chosen , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why are we fighting this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do something that we &apos;re guilty of , i think , not wanting to be guilty , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description for what &apos;s happening here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes tomorrow .
anyway . i certainly want to .
it &apos;s currently in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine , and go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know we can do it , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , as &quot; a deception that becomes something real , if someone believes in it solid enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s because the person thinks what &apos;s going on with it , is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient only believes in it , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
you know , it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it &apos;s also that making decisions is so hard that they miss great investments in their employers .
a deception becomes something real , because someone perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s at least since the 1950s in every magic book for children .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the pfadfinder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my tracks like this .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
in this way , you can see that no one is moving anything at any time , and as long as i squeeze here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife will be held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without falling down the knife .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach little kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you know this trick in the room .
here &apos;s how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i &apos;m closing my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because that &apos;s the real secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger here , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s someone sitting in the back who didn &apos;t have childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s not really what this is all about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , will be hidden by this movement that the finger moves back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing for me .
it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin tablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you paint those blue and you put a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any form .
a colored capsule , which is at one end yellow and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
and the dosage also matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
the key thing is , ...
... that the doses also play a role .
and the form plays a role .
you don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach out to the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that has a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that is obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from this study that you have to reach out to the needle if you want to go to the thing .
this is an eight-inch long hat needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to first give you a little sterilizing .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
so i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to push through it , until it strikes back on the other side .
if you get bad -- if you get easy to fall -- i did this a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has almost become powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad quickly , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part in the back here .
you can see it in a second , but you can see it away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my meat starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to do a little bit of a stick .
i &apos;m really sorry . is it crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin , and on the other side , out like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the messertrick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about that .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid and it &apos;s going to pass itself through the skin for a few minutes just to stop us . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this kid from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically they came up with the milky river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is induced by the great selection of different salad ressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what would happen is this image alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the happiness you made by your decision , even though it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from near .
that &apos;s really my skin . that &apos;s not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my meat , and i can turn that around .
sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back or the people who see this on video later will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , he would -- look , here &apos;s a hole and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing at all , which is disappointing for the choice you make .
but i think in this frame here , and with the intention of making a deception something real , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to see ourselves a couple of times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;re looking forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody &apos;s talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up after about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a huge wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happy coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all of this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mainly going to be about these cognitive traps .
second , what economists call oppertunity costs .
this is true of laypeople thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists thinking about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a reluctant to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word of happiness is simply not a useful word , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we can constrain it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a variation of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the notion of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible cycle of sound .
dan gilbert did a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really quite emotionally , which has ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was connected to a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had to get .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in terms of two types of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to reexperience the past , but is basically just the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is talking about -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt now when i touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the remembering self is the one that counts and sustains the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the physician talks about by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s just to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you &apos;re excluding , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or , &quot; what was your journey like to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and changing the two is part of the consensus of happiness .
now , the remembering self is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we &apos;re not just telling stories when we &apos;re trying to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful today , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who has suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is this clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
so clearly , from a heritage self , b had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend patient a &apos;s gut reflection by just letting the tube go in without shaking too much on it .
that will cause the patient to suffer , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you do that for a couple of minutes , you &apos;ve made the living self of patient a worse off , and you &apos;ve made the memory of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what does a story mean ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
so , what a story is about rebreaks , meaningful moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living self lives continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological presence is for about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the remembering self .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you kind of get the impression that you should count , that what happens during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in the world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that reminds us of ourselves .
so we have the remembering self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the transition with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two weekly vacation is twice as good as the weekly vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory itself at all .
for the remembering self , a weekly vacation is hardly better than the weekly vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable , which is different from a memory self , from an inherent self . time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two different kinds of gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , then the one that has the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon that &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
we don &apos;t actually choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predictable memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of remembering yourself , and you can think of the memory itself as one that , in a sense , draws the living self through experience that doesn &apos;t need the living self .
i have the impression that when we do vacation , it &apos;s very common , which means we do vacation mostly in the service of remembering ourselves .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we get from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the color blue and green , because the sky scene is the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn , &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often about it in relation to how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably had my memories of this three-week journey , which i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
now , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you do more of it , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the weight that we give to the weight that we give ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer . and if you think about memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self are two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of remembering yourself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park in front of my house . &quot;
that &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or delighted the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to mask the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being that have been exploring happiness for a long time .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the remembering self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started learning about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with your life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy you live your life and vice versa .
just to give you an idea of the correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone , and you were to tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
when i tell you that someone has arranged their life as eight on a scale of 10 , you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his inhabited self .
so the correlation is low .
we know a little bit about what the happiness of happiness determines .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of both kinds of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is because we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if you live in , say , ohio .
and what happens is , when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people might end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who are moving to california , hoping to become happier .
well , your living self is not going to get happier .
and the more choices there are , the more attractive traits of that choice are considered in the oppertune cost .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because when you think about it , you &apos;re reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we phone calls a few weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something you can share with us , because you &apos;ve got a couple of minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings varied with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a 600,000 dollars a year &apos;s income .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy , the poorer they become .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t get you an experience happiness , but that lack of money certainly gets you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the remembering self , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some testimony .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the whole american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians -- that the country would generally take a finding like the seriousness and make policy based on it ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are about to recognize that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the remembering self , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe about doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the next few years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this , i think , will be part of the national statistic in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or at least the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for that . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more amazing games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one important point that he makes is , whenever you decide for one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , according to my research at the institute for the future , it &apos;s just the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours a week of play .
this may seem a little bit counterintuitive , so i repeat it so that if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i mean it really seriously .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so vital to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language , and a marriage manuscript called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will do what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings in the game , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , of fear , but also external concentration , deeply immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here , the eyes that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . fine . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so super-positive that they didn &apos;t even know it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond imagination .
and when they do it , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of doing this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is right in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world , when we take on the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we tend to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face , and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? ok .
that &apos;s me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i was studying why we &apos;re better at play than in real life .
that &apos;s a problem that many players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t mean just less successfully , although that &apos;s part of it .
we &apos;re getting more in game worlds . i mean , well , in the context of motivation to do something meaningful , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i believe that many of us are turning into our best version , at any time and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as necessary , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think you couldn &apos;t just do anything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from the games into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories so possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , and immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a job that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their ability , so they have to get busy , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you &apos;re not sitting around , and you &apos;re twisting . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are tons of employees .
anywhere you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that when you have a fingertips , there &apos;s a lot of employees ready to do that .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we &apos;re there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a kind , and they bought it , and they fought badly , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they carried it long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 &quot; or &quot; + 1 &quot; intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one speech and plus-one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory that we &apos;d rather spend all our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of the old , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have a couple of jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing , it just makes sense when you look at the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out , because it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as people .
we develop into collaborative thinking , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
let &apos;s look at this interesting statistic recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours to online games to the 21st year of life .
so 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total of what they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the degree of high school , if you &apos;re never missing .
so here we have a complete parallel education , where young people learn as much as they do , what it means to be a good player as anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; fly over . &quot;
and the seller said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a random subject to the 21st year of life , we will become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever it is , like the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have , in fact , the unprecedented human potential before .
so many people are now in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at &quot; something . &quot;
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at anything .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want buttons or rippling ? washing stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile phone nets , rather than the broadband internet , so that players all over the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found : first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of it as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a grounded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying to do it , and it &apos;s the same .
players are not sitting around .
players are masters in the spider of social nets .
do you want to make jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we like more people after we &apos;ve played with them , even when they beat us evil .
the reason for this is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that someone &apos;s spending time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal , and we &apos;re staying there until the end .
so playing together enables the growth of bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft-player is playing 22 hours a week , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that as human beings we work optimally when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always willing to work hard when they get the right job .
do you want to cut far down , cookie , blah blah blah , blah , blah ... &quot; and so on .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awesome missions of planetary mass .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together about world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses that are spoken in six or seven languages because of the mischief , is that you never hear somebody who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can make more social bonds in games than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s now completely logical that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that comes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes made of sheep needs . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep needed .
and these were , in a way , the first of humans developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
and according to herodotus , games , more precise cubes , in the kingdom of lydia during famine .
i had it better . all this choice allowed me to have it better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to have a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and on a day you would eat , and the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surrounded us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next day .
likewise , i think we &apos;re putting in games today .
we put in games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get out of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , all that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
and according to herodotus , after 18 years , famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to do a final cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up into an epic adventure .
they left lydia and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there were food to survive and looked for the rest of the area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers , who later formed the roman empire , have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to the notion that herodotus &apos;s crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what famine could explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing , by flipping themselves into games for 18 years , and then having that insurgency and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time of the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i &apos;m going to take my 21 billion hours a week .
we should overcome that half of us spend an hour a day playing until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve real world problems in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve devoted my work to at the institute for the future in the last few years ?
the reason i felt worse was because of all these possibilities available , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans go up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want to do is create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empower people to put that idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you just three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and get people &apos;s epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when it was just in a way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing them since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a changing experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you &apos;re going to go to .
find out how to survive . most of our players have kept the habits in the game .
so for the next world-class game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is , of course , called the global extinction system , sensitivity system .
when they came to 100 species , damn well , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we designed almost like a &quot; jerry gross &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream-team , &quot; and you have the astronaut , the scientist , the ex-beach , and only together can you save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future of energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3rd , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social recovery , &quot; in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book . we have &quot; level up &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge interconnectedness , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in development areas that benefit from being able to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a huge meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to tip tight social nets , urgency optimism and desire for epic significance .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing major games together to survive on this planet another century .
and i hope you &apos;ll play and play with me like this .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world &apos;s changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago when i was writing an italian wired article .
i &apos;ve always had my synonymous dictionary on writing , but i &apos;ve been ready to work with the text , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never beaten up in my life , which means the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;ll read you the entry .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; crippled , helpless , useless , destroyed , deceased , mutilated , wounded , balanced , disconnected perceived , served , balanced , impotent , capped , paralyzed , handicapt senile , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , restored , imposed , broken , counted , injured , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i first laughed , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; focused , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk anymore , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting , after this overall , wordless emotional shock .
of course , this was an explicit , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was an issue in the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and form my self-image outside my family surroundings , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
adding possibilities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that would perceive someone like me as a person whose life cannot be positive in any way , but today i will be celebrated for the opportunities and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expect to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under &quot; near antonyms , &quot; &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of an escape has a great force , because what you say can manifest itself loud .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to refer to a human being mindlessly as a child , could be enough to limit them and to overcome ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors ?
one person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always carried very colorful flies and was just like created for the work with children .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- that &apos;s what you know to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flew them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he watched me do one of my exercises -- these practices were just tiring and scary -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to rip one day .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if they did , they all don &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you do , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so that i do the practice that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the prospect that righteous five-year-old girls in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i &apos;ve been wondering today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and i &apos;ve been able to think of myself as a very powerful , powerful and atlethic human being .
this is just an example of how adults in power positions can prompt the imagination of a child .
but as the quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow anyone to think of themselves as powerful people .
our language removes the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
from the medical perspective , you can say , of course , that my legs , the laser surgery for visuals , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and develop beyond the limits that they have set their natural destiny , not to speak at all by social networking platforms , allow people to self-assemble , to define themselves in a way , and to orient themselves to groups around the world .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you how to deal with the wishes , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never adapted for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with widespread lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being shaped by the interconnected experience , as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional , or even both of them .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
joints are not an obstacle that we have to embrace in order to deal with our lives better .
joints are just part of our lives .
and i tend to think of joints as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to do it at all , or the severity of the fight of a human being .
there are modes and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is dealing with it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with the wishes or not , but how we deal with it .
so we &apos;re not just responsible for preserving the people we love from fatal strikes , but also preparing them to do well .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we make them feel like they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything that was worse , it was possible for people to experience a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : one , the medical fact of being amputated and another , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly meant that it could describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about us and to tell you the cold , hard truth about their medical projection , or even to give you a projection of the quality of life that you expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t have the basic stone for someone actually being disabled .
maybe the current concept that &apos;s just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair it , for each one of them , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being properly , and we don &apos;t perceive all of its forces and possibilities , we create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond patology and focus on all the human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we return them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds .
i &apos;m more likely to realize that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome wishes , but that we &apos;re open to embrace them , to pack them on the shelf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we live in wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we can think of joints as something natural , coherent and useful , and we don &apos;t feel so disturbed by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its kind survives , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can adapt to change best .
conflict comes from creativity .
not just from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really checked .
maybe that &apos;s the sense of the wishes , the perception of the icon , the sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give joints a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
you &apos;re never going to be surprised because your expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can think of joints as a change .
jokes are a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . the typical . but not the normal . and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if they were really there ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could take this paradigm of normal versus another of the possibilities , or the strength , to actually put it a little bit more dangerous , exchange it , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills to society .
anthropolgene has found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that even the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , older people and people have contributed to severe physical injury , and that may have happened because the life experience was valuable for the survival of these people .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a couple of years ago , i went to the city i had grown up in a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a shame of tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts on .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he was .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man i knew only from my mother &apos;s narratives about this day , because , of course , i was typical , to my birthday , two weeks late .
my mother &apos;s doctor for pranatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born with no legs , and my feet had turned to them , and i just had a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot , he was the vector , and this stranger had to get the bad news over .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and they &apos;ve just punished me since . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper cuts of my entire childhood , whether i had won in a spelling competition in the second class , whether i was in the tracks of the parade in half , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he was using these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahman medical school and the herhey medical school .
and he called that part of his class the x factor , the potential of human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical that factor can be to the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. kean said , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they &apos;re not told anything else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids alone , then children can do a lot of things . &quot;
see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone deals with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prostheses against the legs of meat and bones , then i wouldn &apos;t have been delayed for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than encountering people who wanted to constrain me or overcome an idea .
you see , it really just needs one person to demonstrate to you how you can manifest your forces , and you &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommending -- if they can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , they &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open doors to themselves .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means generating something that is in one is to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted in 1958 peaceful .
but leaving is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was conducted in the u.k. , and in those days , gymnasia were transformed into overall schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call it &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided by notes .
and the a students are getting tirelessly reviewed , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month-long period of time , gave students a &quot; enough &quot; the note very good , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it &apos;s breaking your heart , that the one-year-olds were told that they &apos;re just sufficient .
and that &apos;s the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had dropped out of school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers were not denied .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that these are the one-year-olds , and these are the students with the note enough , and they taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no more hope . he finds nothing more beautiful . he lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human mind , to continue to hope , to find ourselves and other people around it beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
when a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandments , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he always says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
when hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who &apos;s responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
what about living longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has been looking for more and more creativity .
which would you like the most ?
which would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many creative people are here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s also as clear that the answer to the question is you .
how many would choose to have a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been an ongoing topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor to the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the lit of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the proof of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because there &apos;s no sense in the course of this talk .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it for others , or is it for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve put a bush as a center of desperation in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials on the top of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , maybe there were 20 or 25 different specials of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can use this , and we can take the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes out of the pancreas .
and talking about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than it is leading cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they might just want without effort .
and so , when people make decisions , and even when the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s really a lightweight way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they help to digestive essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , perhaps as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which is ultimately shaping in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is only short measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and the human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s what we were .
this also represents the entertainment of this speech , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it , d .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a freshman in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all of the genetic information of the cell is carried on in both daughter cells .
but at that time , when multicellular organisms appeared , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes essential .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body is at the same time as the sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who introduced his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knock on his hotel room door .
i think a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointing because their standards are so high . and then , if they have to explain those experiences to themselves , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautifully clothed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the conclusion that as a doctor , i was working on a goal that was different than the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about giving the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re doing better generally , objective , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i developed like boster rockets to send the genetic question to the next stage of orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody was expressing when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to achieve immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to the environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
at the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and they survive the hot steam , otherwise if fish were there , it would have vacuum cooked fish , but they have managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how do we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to move forward .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried and made a tough mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason for that would be that , first of all , through medicine , we could get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been chosen and been removed from the population .
and secondly , as a species , our environment has configured us so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us , and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing ourselves so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be a evolution of the traditional kind , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inadequate .
and as far as the isolation goes , when we colonize as a species of distant planets , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution might naturally produce .
but there is a third possibility , a seductive , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided to be individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to prepare genetic adaptations on the body that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or reduce the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question , which is a little better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than a choice .
next year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in the pencil to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality to be that there &apos;s going to be the $ 1,000 human genome , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who independently developed techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- which is called frances arnold &apos;s &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was awarded to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took a adult skin cell , a fibroid , and by manipulating just four genes that induced cell to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially able to become arbitrary cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself , but also serve for immunity against other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study going on with vaccine versus influenza that &apos;s been built in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , much more will be possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the egg cells or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- elimination of diabetes , remove the crochet aid , reduce the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the changes to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the capability of a ken jennings harbor , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why not live longer ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attribute that we want , we will be transformed by old style of evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time in which choice improves our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually requires 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or their grandchildren .
are we using these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others of us ?
are we going to form a society of dielanguous and uniform , or robuster and multiplier ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good or in the bad , and before you might think , these decisions will be up to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman capabilities , or another one that helps to stand up and go back .
now , as a set of questions -- i &apos;m almost finished -- as a set of questions , which is the idea of thinking about it , which allows all of this choice in the industrialized societies , is the material of wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re not anything but something that they put in the morning that will give them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
that &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who &apos;s about 100 pounds on average on his back , and it &apos;s a question that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal cord injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds on different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them whose problem is not the big choice .
his flexible design enables you to pick up , crawl and execute highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then it increases my strength and persistence .
we &apos;re so far as to imagine , with our industrial partner , this device , this new exoskeleton in this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take our look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people sitting in the wheelchair around the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we often talk about very young people with spinal cord injury , who were hit in the flowering period of their lives -- 20s , 30s , &apos; 40s -- and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population that &apos;s multiplying .
their problem is that they have too little .
and so pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so it &apos;s been , by the way , for 500 years , since his , i must say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
so let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who had a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that she has not been able to walk for 19 years and now .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboard-computer , which is attached here on her back .
here are also batteries , the engine engine is on your hips , as well as on your knee joints that are moving forward in this very smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and i was in the best form , when a monstrous purchase tree was paralyzing me as a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every fifth hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have since allowed me to learn how to ski , to climb again and even ride with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and annoying is , steve levitt yesterday told you about how these expensive and hard to install car seats are not helping . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a non-profit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman to help with a volunteer delay , the fire .
well , in our town , where volunteers were supporting a high-quality professional fire department , you have to be quite early on in the fire station to be able to mix with you .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the fire site , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to get in .
but it was still an arms race against the other volunteers to reach the chief man and find out what our job would be .
when i found the chief man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner of the house who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the sleeping train and barefoot under a umbrella in the streaming rain while her house was standing in the flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the chief man first and was asked to go to the house and save the owner &apos;s dog .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would consider friendly gestures , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest had never seen anything two-dimensional in their lives .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not just that they don &apos;t help .
there was any lawyer or assets manager who could now tell the rest of his life that he went to a burning house to save a living , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was the next one .
the chief man wagged me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you &apos;ve got to go to the house .
you have to go up , past the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went -- the stairs up , the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen who were already quite ready to delete in the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey back down , where i met my neck on the front door , and i met the beloved dog .
we took our estimates out to the house owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fireman was given a letter from the owner , where she was thanking for the brave application of her house .
one of the most appreciated kindness : someone had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my career at robin hood and in my side job as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at a large scale , but i &apos;m also seeing the kindness and the muts of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer a memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in another &apos;s life until you get to your first million .
if you have something to give , you &apos;ll give it now .
use it in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
not every day will offer us a chance to save the lives of a human being , but every day offers us the opportunity to change one .
so get rid of it ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where the women are leading the prescription , with sex , saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relativity .
this is the wild bonobos world in the ancient forest of congo .
if something of what enables the people of our society to make decisions like this , to the societies in which people have too little choice would be shifted , not only would people &apos;s lives be improved , but our dignity also improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we have emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by great , scary guys , the bonobo-society is led by empowered females .
they really have come up with something , because that leads to an excellent tolerant society where lethal violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese primal forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to see .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the darkness itself -- the scene of a violent debate that has been raging for decades and has asked almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction is also at risk of the survival of the bonobos .
meat and the decline in the tree is that you can &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war , &quot; because they have common , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like that , conflict and social opportunities .
i &apos;m not saying it &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos &apos; life is made up of more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives long .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plaguing us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and if you look at bonobos playing , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us apart .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage just from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-like -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; it grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
but i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a highly developed person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in people .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of bringing new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game both demands and promotes trust -- while it &apos;s at the same time , unbelievable fun .
but the game is a form transducer .
play is a form transducer , and it can take many shapes that some of which are a little more quiet , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
and i think , just like they do , we sometimes play alone , and we charge limits of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected linking that we form is the real nutrition of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us into our past and our present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future where we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and print , cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this gold glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
to adapt successfully to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem to be appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover creativity and wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , exactly the same day , at the same moment , each baby -- okay .
impoverished fantasy , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two pairs , every baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time making this , because , if you imagine the creation all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are viable , both of them are light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
for most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- which is human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they were thinking about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought the fish knew something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve worn in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , who question social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that are not matching the male or the female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with a xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of y chomosomes is going to grow up the protogonads that we all have fetal stadium .
and so the testosterone in the fetal stage gives off testosterone .
they lifted up these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing , and concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the gold glass , so everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called the androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to it .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s educated as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarying and uterus , they actually wear testicles and they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something called adrenaline glands in our bodies .
if you break the gold glass , so everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilifying hormones .
most women , as i do -- i believe i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome building , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me are actually talking about androgens .
we &apos;re producing androgen , and we &apos;re talking about androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgenic receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual is not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed across the whole bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , who had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had ovaries and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side is so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- nobody knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was internally menstruating that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , where the obesity tissue is surrounded by testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarfs or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- are often adapted to the norm by surgeons , is not because it would be for their physical health of benefit .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason they &apos;re often performed with different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a particular anatomical exposure comes with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity , to be a black person , is supposedly to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this incredibly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different to us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the body cup of berlin .
many journalists called me the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and intersexually and intersexually , in fact , we are the ones that pretend to be natural .
this is almost entirely confined to safety -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation where , as our science continues , we have to admit to it so much that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories , are much poorer than we thought we were .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
when we look at it , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
so , for example , we &apos;re putting in the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re just different from them by a few nucleotides ?
as we continue to push our science forward , we get increasingly into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different parts of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the battles of the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about what point a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but being a metaphorical gold glass is a recipe for misery , and , i guess , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- perhaps not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve been keeping a feather under the nose , and when she moved , they haven &apos;t been buried .
when it didn &apos;t move , you &apos;ve buried it .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start to deal with the really difficult question of when someone &apos;s dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we did before .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are actually much more insecure than we thought , i &apos;m excited .
and it excites me in terms of thinking about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years , i find myself watching the malignant music in 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomical activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they proved was an anatomical concept , and they replaced it by another , which was radical and beautiful , and 200 years was measurable to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the ancient world rulers had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of birth on the right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited blood line , from their grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
they nivellized the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities were not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did that in part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew up together .
democracy grew in , but at the same time , science grew in .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural nature , and they showed things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth rights .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at the declaration of independence , for example , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and so they really wonderfully prepared the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomical communality is more important than the anatomical difference , and said , &quot; we have a uterus and an ovarian hive than significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to ownership , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
next , the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like soybean truth , who spach on it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which appeals to anatomical commonalities before anatomical differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing with the disabled rights movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start looking at all the similarities , we have to start asking questions about why we keep certain separations .
well , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their informed consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been constructed at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the mid-1979 on the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born early three months , so she &apos;s born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday appointment , so he &apos;s born on march one in 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months before heinrich , she gets all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to take the right to choose to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time he was born .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , since you think he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be moved into what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , in all states , cannot perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that is to marry the right .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomical categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science is going to make such progress in anatomy , that we have to reach a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time it feels like science is on its own .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people are caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas has decided at a point that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story that i told you about the androgen defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of speech &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not evaluate people by &quot; their skin color , &quot; but by the trait of their character , and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social benefits more than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labs dogs , who are more powerful , more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate on the characteristics of character ?
it turns out it &apos;s really hard .
and part of me wonder , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our work really well , and i think we &apos;d do our work well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like in iran , for example , where a man who is sexually attracted to other men is punished with death , unless he is willing to undergo a gender transmutation in which case he is allowed to stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist in us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i phones with him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- it was highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very poorly , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well did you consider political asyl rather than having an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are without having to change for the state &apos;s sake .
so i think we have to be leaders .
all right , just to finish , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibility of what democracy might look like , or may have looked like if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a feminist a little bit radical , which is , i think , that there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is a map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of complex social relationships and caring for people who are vulnerable within the group , are very much attention .
and so when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my undergraduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , doing it -- a really curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , this is the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is all about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say that there could be something , on average , which makes women &apos;s brains different from men , which makes us more attention to the sophisticated social relationships , and more attention to the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes out of the 500 or something that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of finding out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept of not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we take democracy over anatomy -- less to think about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to do a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find , in every opportunity , a different colorful , crazy outfit , and to be photographed and blogging recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of the second hand on fin markets and in second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this map of metabolic , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my guarderobe on the environment and also my purse .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars are usually serving a good cause ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes a shopping for my personal chess .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
is it going to be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers are , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i &apos;ve been packing for this exciting week at ted .
i mean , what does someone bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way to go forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for just a week are all i &apos;ve done in my suitcase .
i &apos;ve bet that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i found some things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i believe it or not , have learned from these adventures to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be badly charged when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself , and at the same time adapt .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to create these really big molecules , which has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing &apos; dressing &apos; or i remember her seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost like that .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me that day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;ll just summarize that for you .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody in this audience .
they went through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden paillets match everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to hack these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit , waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in my heart and search for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of induced chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a point of view , as a flying point of view .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about that .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy is growing up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because of the formula 1 , in the past decade , something very interesting happened .
a while ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that pass that information out of the car , pass that information back to the system , and then process it and then use it to send that car back decisions and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is that real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become the computer in the open .
and as a computer in the open , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly but still increasing , and our final point is now going to be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceive and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli , at moma , later in the year , organized during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , start talking back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both , a sensor and a driver .
and that &apos;s radically changing the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means that at the end of the day he took the hammer and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment , for the first time , begins to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with perceiving .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that is now collected from the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won football world cup .
some of you will remember it was as italy playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the head push .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just by watching the activity that &apos;s happening in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber river .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are making calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gateway .
half-time , people make a short call , go to the toilet .
second half-time . end of normal play .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the headshock .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of winning and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just an example of how we can feel the city today , in a way that we couldn &apos;t feel it a few years ago .
very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , this is about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our stuff comes from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who , a little over a year ago , helped us tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things that you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the trash , and we started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there &apos;s a lot of inefficient in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is , we believe that when we see every day , the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re still throwing away every day .
and if we showed that to people , we can drive a behavioral change .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could perceive you much more about the and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we talked about at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition to use water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was , how could you connect technology , new technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they create something like a water curtain with a water curtain .
if these images fall down , they can write on them , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to jump through it , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open and it will let you go in .
the roof was covered with water as well .
54 percent of the deaths have happened through drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can even leave the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , this day , when you drive down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building ; it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who wonders what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me trying to not get wet in the test of the sensors that opened the water .
now , let me tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but in fact , that night , it was an even bigger fun thing .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to make it happen , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use the things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are being used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical scores , the pictures of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little bit of a change point -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of chemical and we put it into a bacterium , and the bacterium began to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , is not the position of the images .
they can play with different types .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or different sizes , in different resolution .
but then this could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling that goes down to form a smooth v like it used to .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so we &apos;ve seen it before .
imagine that every single person is being controlled .
it could have a momentum that comes from every single point of view , from people , from the movements of people , or something like that .
i want to show you something first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do this all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery points , you can play with it and play with color movement and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
recently , i was talking to the oil industry , and they said they knew exactly how to do this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re going to do with people to do something and to change the environment -- almost something like what we call a cloud movement , how we move a scheunor , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a point of view .
i think that the remarkable of what &apos;s happened over the last few years is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized , knowledge , and it makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to address the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we then move from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they put things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with images .
they can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to the top , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow in the night -- but most important , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very interested in context .
so we think that this is a situation in which software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i try to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected to each other .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i got awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy , trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me was racing about 60 feet out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a glacier &apos;s calf , or by breaking out of ice customs .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experiences .
some refuse to give up and to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop it and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
when you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we often see people .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build an entire bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in cassets of the size of the virus that we could vary the size of the cassette tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe in its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral rich drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m going to go to my recordings of these iceberg , as if i &apos;m going to make portraits of my ancestors , in the awareness that they exist in these individual moments , and never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i photograph is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be miserable .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was at a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs are crying . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that as well .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that does design and animation , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and to support his thing .
we followed geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear anyway .
we found 30 mistakes in ressource . if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate through these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , just when you &apos;re in the upper social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not accessible to these . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diver bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers run along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can this be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units so that they fit together .
so i came up with the need to just put a check on it , and instead , i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to fix it .
i committed to the place to his brother and father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to speak , we &apos;re going to get a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw with a laser pointer to only register the negative surface .
so they go around and they do art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are being shown up there are consequences of a life cycle .
it starts with the gender parts , and then you get the dials , and then you get the bush-publishing and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in your presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control things , then we should find a way that tempt can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve done some things .
first of all , we got the insurance to the doors , and we actually got a device for tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
and also , we flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all over the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and we came back , and all of the images on the walls were weighed graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach floor in venice , my kids were involved , my dog was involved , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built in watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach store , a little copper wire , and a few things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we put the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of constraints .
no insurance can be crushed .
not a hospital either .
now , any paralyzed one can actually communicate or draw on their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to the tempt room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of someone else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a 4-letter code : a , c , g and t .
so there &apos;s all this rubble in front of the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and enforced nights , tony drew for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve been tilting his bed so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot before the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a feeling that was in the parking lot .
and luckily , we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spraying scene .
at the end of it , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i drew something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone reached down and raised my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our struggle cry .
that keeps us in touch and keeps us evolving .
and we still have to make a lot of difference in this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s coming up with a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all kinds of recognition .
we won a few prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve to do it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered on us and then , december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this -- and this includes the whole circle -- is that this april , when moca was in downtown los angeles , there will be an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will probably be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty descended .
so what i &apos;m going to do is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with fiber technology , but i &apos;ve just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should be asked by all of you on every single day that has to be noticed to you something that has to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who then ?
we just signed up at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book authors .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come from this like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or you can have me in leather , but nobody has ever elected farmers .
today , i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom coat .
i was the one who was beaten in the juvenile toilet green and blue every week until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life using the toilet in the teacher &apos;s room .
she did it secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a work in aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call from this teacher in the middle of the night , woman post , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man that i know you &apos;ve found him now ?
we built the pieces so we could just break them up with enzymes , there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave eight to their family , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that included five to seventh thousand letters , they put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often here today .
he needs the same -- he would need love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them , and they said , &quot; no problem , we &apos;ve probably caught some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the engines .
imagine a noiseless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most sensitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready for a crash . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was shy , life was over .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about that day .
i learned that , in a moment , everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to reach a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do , and i never did .
and while i was thinking about it later , i noticed a phrase that says , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to change anything in my life .
and that urgency , that goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we were missing the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair broad -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to become better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regret the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i don &apos;t try to be right anymore ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock starts , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; counting down .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of dying , human being is not terrifying .
it &apos;s almost as if we &apos;re preparing our lives to do it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish for one thing .
i just wish i could see my children growing up .
about a month after that , i went to a show of my daughter -- first graders , not much artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologist recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots together , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please not -- but imagine it , and how would you change ?
what would you do that you put on because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is three million rads of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can possibly be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is quite straightforward .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for developing nuclear weapons is the uranium incentives in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we can combine the systems that control revolutions and valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows virus going on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure that gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge , and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commissioned .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research at stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he used countless cereal locations .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has been reunited as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after we experimented with different kinds of cheese , i realized this was a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is active on the gray box when a special configuration has been discovered , even when the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it is going on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , an american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we better soon find out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attacking code , and we found that it was structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a larger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already noticed that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for you .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attacking code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart out of this code .
so what we were looking for was systems function , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away , and determine what kind of animal they belonged to .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures , and we tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
to make these theories , we call ourselves to remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely highly sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and it &apos;s very likely in iran , because that &apos;s where most infections have been reported .
well , there are not several thousand targets in this area .
it basically runs out on the book of nuclear power plants and the uranium incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; get me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor controlling .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and when you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of attacking was actually to make it happen slowly and uncanny -- obviously in trying to have warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precise data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is really sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature , about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in something called the cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attacks ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that was really good together .
and this gave us great confidence for what we looked at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results were achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to regather .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little jumphead takes over a cascade , and flips the rotors , and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades interacting and manipulating valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually have determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereign , and it &apos;s just sovereign .
so we don &apos;t have to worry about other goals being hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we made using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefe-mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we fit them in , and then we automatically assemble them .
here &apos;s something really cool stuff that we &apos;ve discovered -- really took me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top , you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming values of sensors -- so for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code , which is still running during the attack , with false incorporated data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the tracking chase , the monitoring camera is being fed with earlier video footage .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just lists the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s even more dangerous and more aggressive .
the idea is to overload a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t react fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power plant , for example , if the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within milliseconds .
of course , it can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , then really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so , for example , it would work just as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the usage data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for those attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
this is footage over six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to face the consequences , and we start preparing ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force is the cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last couple of years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time kind of dangerous .
i went to prison -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career appearing to be in terrible situations , and all of this just trying to study the social impact that they &apos;re compelling and interesting , and hopefully to understand in a way that makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule that has ever been created by humans .
some of you may have heard that a couple of weeks ago , i turned an ad on ebay .
i sent a couple of facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights of my tedtalk in 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and nonprofits , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- to buy the namities of the talk that you &apos;re just seeing , which at that point didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues to what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and which could eventually fly around the ears after content , especially if i let your company stand dumb for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a whole lot .
this is just the labor title , by the way .
so despite this warning , i knew anybody would buy the namesities .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , i &apos;ve been in some pretty terrible situations over the years , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could move me to anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole movie is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; is that everything from above to bottom , from beginning to end , is completely missed with brands -- from the front sponsor you &apos;ll see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the movie will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing job when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalians and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we were to print it with a 10 and no distances , it would be 142 pages , just to print this genetic code .
that was more for emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so maybe we sell a shoe , and it becomes the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of statements .
so that &apos;s the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would love ceg to help to do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how recipient people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be , most likely , &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing to do about me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we have to think about the brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that they have to do with ...
it &apos;s also as simple when you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put out the camera .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just so all these companies disappeared , one by one .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , let as many people see it as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaea bacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently , we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that was what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
see , if you put transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and to look through , instantly understood , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species , and roughly , these two are just as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra-genes to choose this chromosome , and we decomposed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it &apos;s supposed to be done , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and there he is sitting there looking at me -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but since only one company , an agency , was willing to help us -- and also because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right with my team .
so what they started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought there was the end here , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
whenever i get on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this before the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short-term .
now , i can answer all of your questions and give you a full-blown census .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested in it .
what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
overlegendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone does under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of anywhere , adding thousands of characteristics to a species every single time .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the druggery ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who is like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that is changed at a time has missed a lot by biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
in the &apos; 80s , revival hits the skate point , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the gene , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like lots of black colors , lots of gray sounds and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and such a stuff .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , reliable fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : part of hippie , part of yogi , part of brooklyn girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schedules all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted author .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and trusted fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed someone who could get inside my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , febreeding , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
that &apos;s what i have . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell and recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come from and start from a place , and for me , they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is it in the context of the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i want to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had put in .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppet stage are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what does the red represent ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of it .
and after a very short period of time , all of the characteristics of the species had lost and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing that i saw was this idea that their brand personality had two separate , but the supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight-by-play brand .
they do very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with this .
and i think some companies will just focus on a strength , rather than both .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things that they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a dexterous chess .
what other brands are doing ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are games and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
you up-attribute them ? are you something that brings the blood into walls ?
or are they more of a down-attribute ?
are you something that &apos;s a little more quiet , reservative , more conservative ?
up-attribute are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , contemporary , adventurous , outlandish and loving like erol flynn , agile , professional , glorious , magical and mystic as gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are they mindful and monument like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , thoughtful , thoughtful , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchima , but we can , by shifting the software dna , changing things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies , and they said , &quot; no , &quot; because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to do anything with this film , because they didn &apos;t have control , they didn &apos;t have control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to take control of this , who wanted to do business with someone as remarkable and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we don &apos;t normally have -- stories that a advertiser would never ever support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you &apos;re using mris today to lift the pleasure centers of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there has been no timeline , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts , where companies are getting their way in miserable schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i got the biggest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that the agencies might not really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview challenges .
and what was that for you ? what was it successful ?
well , since the movie was premiere in the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrale , the premiere was in january , and since -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a period of two and a half weeks .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
it hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has won a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency we talked to has recommended their customers to leave their fingers .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your chance , you take risks that you have opportunities in these risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that when you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that when we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that they might scare .
finally , as we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
it &apos;s a big spoon full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , brings us a little bit of honesty .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights of ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at 7100 dollars to fund my ted performance next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i encouraged to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have access to many museums and these works of art .
so when i went and went to these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half billion to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to bring this yearning -- to make art more accessible -- together with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , moma , the hermitage , the rijks , van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient yourself in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in it , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just on . a lot of fun .
pump it up .
thank you , but the best part is coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite pictures , a harvest worker from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plussion .
if the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for anyone who has existed in 1946 , within 40 years , it will be four .
so this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click it away now .
this is one of the images we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you now .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i found that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly noticed that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , and i spoke to some known people at the met , and i actually found that this is a game called squail , which is a gans being beaten with a stick on the side of the day .
it seemed like it was pretty popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
the best thing is , in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again , in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was to find detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush ?
and what only if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture until i really am at the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- whether you &apos;re rich or poor , you &apos;ve got a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all of these pictures , you can make your own collection .
simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is &quot; the donations , &quot; in the national allery .
you can miss it all with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
and i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things are not coming from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question that i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitudes of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , that would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extreme , but i think that for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptite , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries from around the world , a database with about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a ground threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was constantly falling .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that the big things don &apos;t just leave you , and they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with soil pigs , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- how you fly right through walls , or that you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; you needed quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
this didn &apos;t like my intuition , and this may just be because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all of these things are made of particles and all of these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
what we &apos;re doing here is we &apos;re hitting the boundaries of biological reality and that of our imagination .
so i would feel strongly better about the whole thing , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so , a couple of years ago , i decided to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re going to look right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these quick synthesizing techniques to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal it &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and for 100 hours i refined to all the big devices .
for the last little bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool shaped hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to bother them , or , frankly , it disappears .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the co-drivers for intractable objects are not just people , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that &apos;s sweeping over them and the heat of space .
we now have the opportunity to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see this piece of metal behaving quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the travelers .
and then we did .
we turned off the lights , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , just in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just lying there , it vibrated . the way it was vibrating was kind of like this -- like a stretching and coherent bubble balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we could make it vibrate and not vibrate at the same time -- something that is only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m telling you right now is really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate at the same time and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or drugs , new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with just a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
only in precise times do they match .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocralized .
that means that every atom is at the same time in two different places , which at the same time means that the entire piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing me in the clean room for all this year , because , check this out , the massstable difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine you &apos;re at the same time in several places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just nurse selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals , or fuel production , and so on .
how would your mind deal with the fact that your body is delocated in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , we turned on the lights and we looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop these new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says everything is connected to everything .
now , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it than that , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a shot of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you &apos;re actually sitting down and designing new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that when families think about where they live and work , they want to be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all competed for new residents .
at the moment , we are far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that would welcome them .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could make the world very simple with stupid , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
just swap out the building of apartments against cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments have done this already ; half of them haven &apos;t .
they could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you would rely on , in these apartments and their surroundings , there are laws to avoid complaints and to deflect from degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out it &apos;s very hard to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , provided that the laws there would support that building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments are creating new areas that are providing enough space for a city and giving them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that about the same time , jafour and octavio , were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens when we take an undefeated area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- part of the american embassy , part of the canadian bottlenecks , and then when people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a severe prescription crisis .
in the next planning elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovation and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his stable head .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , trying and by studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the fundamental elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we &apos;re giving new technologies great attention , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him , again , jafour .
they called me .
and he said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so in december , we met in the chair of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make clear how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases a square meter is worth thousands of dollars .
we have to deal with the inexorable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us all singing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at one point when there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , was that a charter city is a place that is initially uninhabited , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there , and the people are able to decide either to live or not to live under these rules .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and the fifth of january .
so i gave another filled talk with facts that included a graph like this that tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch represents the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square miles .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that will come out pretty soon that will have much higher rates of sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came onstage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city gives new possibilities to people .
there would be an opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships , which they would support in making the legislation for this charter and in performing that everybody could trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the insight of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been scared and suspicious for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact , without further increases in the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as a starting material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it sums up thousands of square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted in congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional rule that is reliable in particular developing areas .
in a country that has just been elected a major crisis in congress for this change in prescription with 124 to a voice .
all parties , all fractions of society , were supporting this .
to become part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time at 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the city hall business .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center that was built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostones .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first to be the fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
all you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban construction is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you think about it , that &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the decent appeal of the court there .
also , urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been declared , there &apos;s a lot of rent .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to engage in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
there are 700 million people around the world who say they want to live in a different place .
a million people leave latin america every year and migrate to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families , to find work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to afford food and clothes .
unfortunately , sometimes even children trying to find their parents , who they , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what an idea is to think about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds of around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that compete with new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all kinds of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which is , according to a typical american on a day , is 70 .
and also , recently , a study was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo has been dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that relate to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is working on 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of your decisions did you need an hour or more of your time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category against those in one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re in dealing with the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making issues of our modern times , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , just your hand , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the decision overload problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essig and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk conductive water .
i loved going to this store , but at one point i was wondering , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil going .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were embedded in boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the front page , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really give people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed out the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marmelade gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it turns co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we &apos;ve put a little costumes on the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of flavor , and we looked at two things : one , what would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there were more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at the case that people were more likely to buy a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who stayed when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , when you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who you had six choices to choose than when you had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production stores , converting the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , on the subject of the day , saving money .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we &apos;re going to save the decisions for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans all over the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsers that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , is affecting the probability that more is saved for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a context .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that were offering people anything between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the substance was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that two fonds offered , they had a particle rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the subsidiaries now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you have to participate , if you have more options for choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate , rather than the more opportunities they had , the more they avoided it , the more they deployed it to actia and fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we believe we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more opportunities they had , the more they put their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , including the decisions that someone would recommend of people , if we care about their future financial well-being .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three essential negative consequences in humans that provide more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- put it on , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they tend to choose more for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy this huge shelf of mayonaise , mustard , essig and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually compare and draw boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than it is today that less is .
you know , we really have -- modern goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you can &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? to become a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to be limited , and the unimportant opportunities to get rid of , well , there &apos;s a increase in sales , there &apos;s a decline in cost , there &apos;s a decline in the cost , and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
as proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulders from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of the worst selling cat , they experienced that the revenues went up by 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the increase in cost reducing .
you know , the average supermacrat today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical whale mart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today is aldi , and they only give them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market about how to best mandate choice was something that david laibson has very strongly designed , it &apos;s a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff now automatically takes part in a life-time fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fonds , not 300 or more fonds .
you know , people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i &apos;ve asked the question , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , their customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started this afternoon , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer a single vacation to all the people in this audience , including the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;ll give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;ll ask you to clap when you &apos;re ready to take on gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always in the back of it , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of it .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that you see objectively , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would expect to guess that you felt it the second time you were real .
because the images made it more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overload , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by making recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , having to understand the consequences associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be felt vividly and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an ec-map or a credit card than they do on barrel ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel really money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees all working for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it was , we just added a little bit of a thing .
the little thing that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they saved money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or an increase in four percent in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can do better with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now be accelerated with the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaes , and perhaps eukaryonts .
here &apos;s , for example , a study that we did in a magazine process .
it turns out that in the way of supermarkets up and down in the northeast , the number between 331 different kinds of magazines goes up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , then you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and better choice than i would have given you the 400 pages to that if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry equipment .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called swing .
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there &apos;s a couple .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we &apos;re removed from making people better . our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the selector something , not the one who provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just have to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : buy a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now , these decisions are different from the number of choices that you have per decision .
car colors , foreign color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is , i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what am i looking at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re constantly using the standard choice in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing it .
what they &apos;re finding is that the people who go from the many to the low choice ponds are always choosing the standard choice over and over again .
we lose them .
go from the little choice to the many , then you stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses to tell me nothing about my preferences in the interior , it still prepared me to choose .
so now it &apos;s so far . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to motivate myself to be involved in this .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that mild the problem of decision-making -- constraints -- they get rid of the excess alternatives ; concretize it -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; we can prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is meant to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people that you offer service to .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in choice .
and the more we are selective , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube , and i &apos;m looking at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos become viral , and then why this is important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the conjecture was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , of course , one , and voodoo is just the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and that was up to 600 million times within a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but webvideos have allowed us all to become incredibly famous , or all of our creative activities , in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet until next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , only a tiny percentage of it is ever viral , and it &apos;s looked at thousands of times and at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , particle communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , woww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
that &apos;s where jimmy kimmel came .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet that ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s look forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . she didn &apos;t think we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the chart looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know it , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 formulated it , many blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was a first one to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared with a large audience , and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insider joke and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the engaging conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
this is what i work on . it &apos;s called atlas detector -- 44 meters in diameter , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
it was looked at almost 50 million times this year .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats are looking at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of technology and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community laid out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we do it .
who could have predicted all this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or &quot; rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what scripts could you have written in which it stands ?
in a world where every minute of video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected can emerge like the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i was not particularly interested in this , when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy protesting the ticket for bicycles in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t keep you on the bike lane .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats became a funny idea and his argument was looked at five million times .
this approach applies to anything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
and this all leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative communities , completely unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and where the audience is popular .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- did his start at youtube .
no one has to light your ideas green .
and today we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to hit the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep it in front of the communist &apos;s march in saigon , as he has to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , have now spotted his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken through history .
it caused immense juice in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me live his life .
i had to make sure it had not been free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we got over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows a boat in the early morning red quiet in the lake .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had challenged her : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and filmmaker saga glitt , a boat still stealed on the lake as a fisherbow .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that went all the way around the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to put a rain of particles on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear was about pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother wore a little poison bottle .
if you were a prisoner , my sister and i would have drunk , you and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady virtue of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bow , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the deterioration of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple has ever tasted like that again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of the puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we went down in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the scaffolds from the camps came from the rest of the world .
and the missing english were swapped between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother was working on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , layers twice .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was admitted , and was put in more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to get out of it , and most of the time , these were new things that were always coming out of the second hand .
two pieces of road for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because it had to be six years old .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jug , or this , when someone visited the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; close eye &quot; and here , and there were the murals , &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something was sticking in me .
there was a meeting to reconciliation and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i were sleeping in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and my job was to stay awake every night until their nightmares came in so that i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then she made a cosmetic education , and she opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and inflexible , and sorted children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one of them , i was the classic asian student who provided unquestionable demands to himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was selected in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous inhabitant of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , invited to lectures in places she had never heard of , and in homes that she had never imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have been closing every single day as much as they have been for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother , i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we were climbing the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you are . &quot;
so i talked about juvenile unemployment and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and discharged .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires conduct 13-thousand amppets when the machine is running on high performance .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because to belong , it can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone enough from my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is interrupting , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed have been explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inadequate optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the wagnish .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the boxes don &apos;t go , which is an unresistant challenge .
now , the engineers among you will look at you and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i cooked a giant pot soup that we shared .
we worked until late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the u.s .
after just a trip there .
my gut sensation again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and local mandarin .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after she was born .
her mother pulled her up on her own .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without the support of her husband , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to court and claiming her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; can &apos;t &quot; proved to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray , and we sat around her sarg .
we told her stories , and we insured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is her hand so warm , and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding it since this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; they didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it &apos;s going to go through the women .
if you see who we were , and how life has shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manufactured .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life , which is courageous to dry every wave , the unbiased , steady virtues of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is here in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share with you my photography .
is it even photography ?
because this is , of course , a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
so all of a sudden , the wires heated slightly , 13-thousand ampere encountered electrical resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because when the camera was using it , the process was in planning .
and when you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you hit the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about going to the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a lot of riding road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it keeps a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living bears the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like you could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more impressive when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
so i think the basics are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks like it could exist in three dimensions .
but at the same time , we know that it &apos;s not possible .
so we &apos;re overlisting our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two pictures fulfill these two demands -- shot at the same altitude and the same kind of light .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images begin and end by connecting them seamlessly .
does it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by adding color , contrast and brightness to the edges , to the individual images , to add photographic defects , like field depth , debris and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and let them look like a single photo , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part is manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely assembled from photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it would take me several months to plan them , to find the different places for the puzzle &apos;s pieces .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a fishery trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconditioned them , we repaired them .
and yes , i even reversed the house on the top of the island to make it look more swedish .
so to get a realistic outcome , it &apos;s going from me , so i &apos;m looking out at planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
after that , it &apos;s about combining the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and then if you take good pictures , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also pretty realistic .
so , there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way .
and one of the things we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major listener .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it puts a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how is it going to happen ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe just most of the electronic health projects fail : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-scale . this is a very simple thing .
it has a button , on / off .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilograms .
it works very simply : every time i jump to the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
and they &apos;re also called from my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , and that &apos;s not just the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i &apos;ve got over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump on my whale scale , and people are talking to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little lettuce today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer pressure , group pressure , to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could get patients to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play together some kind of game to better control their health .
next week , this is the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , not only can they take control , be captains on their own ship , but can also help us with the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to be able to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start hugging patients on the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you a quick video .
we all have navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht are .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we were asking , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in such a way that accidents are coming back to the debate about the value of science and engineering on these boundaries , and it &apos;s easy to reject something like that .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website , and we asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share us where he is , when he has it , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and we want to do this not only today as aed4u , what the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to take the fact that we reach beyond our limits , is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds all over the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or somebody else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these could be cuban services , for example , or technicians , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us , and try to not only improve health , but take control of it .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to talk about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to conserve by ...
... pay attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be sucked up by the big water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to exaggerate the soul of the living , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , as i suspect , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind to assume that our scientific ideas are finally valid , that there are no mysteries in nature that our trips are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a quick video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it might take until it &apos;s invited .
now -- we can just skip this -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year out and work in an environment that is pretty much everything they actually hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peacekeepers for geeks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to rathenas .
and they developed great apps , working with urban employees .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so you meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is someone who &apos;s snowing him up when he &apos;s caught in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire reduction when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , and we had the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open up these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freely shooting the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , and he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to shake it freely when it races .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take you away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my job , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it spreads rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu who has seen that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can get rid of the bureaucracy when it &apos;s rapid .
we know now nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it has spread , of course , elusive , organic , of course .
when you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work like this .
it &apos;s usually a couple of years of software coating .
we had a team that was working on a project in boston last year , which took three people two and a half months .
it was about a way in which parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were later told that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that has cost the taxpayers two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this on every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spreads from rare , is kind of a shot before the bow on the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- not more like a private company , how many people think it should .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a saled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who make the tools that we need to effectively pack things together .
it &apos;s not just code for america fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about her , they repair her .
however , recently something weird has happened in my life and my career , which has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things are changing .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- reminds you , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about the community of the thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this peculiar event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called the eat , pray , love -- that , unlike all of my previous books , went out to the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fertilizer .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is sweeping ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston has not just a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m being treated as if i &apos;m going to refuse to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- this came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them removed ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so anybody can see it .
and in this case , it was a neighbor .
and the next post we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- refuse to do that .
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . that &apos;s where the digital meets the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of the government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
and so the voodooists like to say , &quot; your white goes to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very worried about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to state services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we will strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the beaver , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to think about it , is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they believe that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is choosing .
how often have we elected a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject ourselves , and we expect the government , reflects our values , and fulfills our needs , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to carry on your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , something that works against us , something else , and then we dealt with ourselves .
people seem to think that politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to do bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work takes place .
we have to rely on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupation movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , who is an answer to the sec-memo about the legislation of financial reform .
it &apos;s not being politically active , it &apos;s being bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about it , the world we want to leave our children .
okay , it &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to get more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually do something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that has grown up with the internet , and that knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems that are right .
now the average age of our field lows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that has grown up looking at her voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting about who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so when they &apos;re confronted with the problem of government , they don &apos;t care so much about using their voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of fear response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve the government &apos;s work .
and these apps let &apos;s use our hands to improve our communities .
this might be to unleash a hydrant , to hunt uncrunches , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories , that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of the government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we have to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; do you not fear never succeeding ? &quot;
my role is usually to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so quick that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by just showing you a single , boring slide .
... could you just show the slide for a minute .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general form .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some other ones , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we have to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is happening here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement will kill you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights , please .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper in a minute .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a kind , and this is any kind of technology that i want to show with a graph , then the graph is going to be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say , a transportation technology , that would be very irrational on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology continued as fast as the microprocessor technology , then we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re going to take this craftsmanship and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scraped dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ash of failure ?
but it &apos;s not going so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technological development , this kind of recursive growth , through which scale increases exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you can &apos;t see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new is going to come , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of what it is .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think that &apos;s going to happen in the way that this is going to happen .
is that true , then that means we &apos;re right now in the middle of a transition .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
something like this , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how is this new world going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is starting to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in the year 2000 , and people were often talking about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i was in the world .
i think the reason for this is that we realize that something is going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that right now it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look into the future 30 or 50 years , because everything will be so different , that a simple computation of what we &apos;re doing just doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is : yes .
so i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do that , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that &apos;s what i want to look at on the earth &apos;s time scale .
i think the whole picture makes sense when you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and that &apos;s 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile rock with a lot of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story of that , which is that at that time , little oil droppers were sniffing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and to grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droppers were the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droppers were not about alive in the sense that every single one of them was just a little accidental recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet , which had a more optimal composition for growth , grew faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside , and divided faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiplied in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is that when these droppers learned a trick about abstraction .
in some ways that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droppers have learned the ability to write down information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this spiritual , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this way of storing information over the period of 2.5 billion years when it came out was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same type of writing .
each being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that , just for pleasure , we can write things ourselves in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white powder here , which i &apos;m trying to keep away in airports of security staff .
it &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 thousand times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an ego , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
writing the dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m even more afraid of things that nobody would know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , which is that these cells began to communicate and share information , so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s also why , for example , the durability is growing to antibiotics .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin , and they &apos;ve written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in some sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the community individuals were more often repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve so that the level on which evolution was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step has happened within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i wonder , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning happened within the period of time of a single organism , rather than this evolutionary period of time .
so , for example , an organism could learn not to eat a particular fruit , because it liked bad and made it sick , the last time it ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these special information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could take place within a time-lapse framework .
after that , the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is the human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving grunting sounds of me , hoping to create a similarly confused idea in your head , which has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the heads of others .
so this now allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started abstracting .
we go through the same stages that multi-cellular organisms have been through -- presenting the abstraction of our methods of capturing data .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in this direction .
telephones , computers , video concerts , cd roms and so on , are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that someone should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel they &apos;re doing ?
you also saw tys &apos;s little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve restored the timeline .
the first steps of the story that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they &apos;re making us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in a traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connection machine .
it has billions of these .
instead , what i do , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , this machine , and the machine is doing something that is far beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do it ourselves .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve been using a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million random sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please execute all of these random instructions , execute all of the programs , and ultimately choose the ones that i &apos;m going to give you the closest . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say i want to sort numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so find programs that are the most likely to place numbers .
of course , the chance , of course , in random instructions , is very small that , by chance , they &apos;re going to sort numbers , so i think none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them , of course , may be happy to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that i have come to the closest .
store that one , delete the rest .
now , all the remaining ones that the numbers have best sorted .
it &apos;s a way of recombining , analog for reproduction . &quot;
with your chemistry blockage , john -- how are you going to do this ?
take two programs and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to premises than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluate them again .
maybe bring in some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can have evolution in the computer for millions of years , in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
and finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re going to do the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because her life depended on whether they did the right job .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make their flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process which is very different from classic engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken from the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists have not received the call of alcohol depressed people over the centuries .
it allows us to do things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is whispering us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we can do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all of these new technologies today are feeding themselves .
we pick up .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time , when cell organisms have evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite make up what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creatives of all genres , seem to have this call , mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else is coming after us .
i find it very , very hard to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think we all here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i &apos;m elected .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about nothing changing since the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians back then , we would jump into a car and swirl over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all they have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , which young and often died by their own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna was allowed , he took a bow , shot into the ground and water came in .
now we &apos;re doing this with drillers and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without a tweet to my friends .
i thought technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unhappy ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually get suicide , they seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
i felt like our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming about it .
they stopped us from being inspired .
and so i went into the technology world to see how i could use magic instead of killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that readers can connect around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sounds and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit more .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- this one says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i get a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these kinds of possibilities .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magic and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found very exciting .
that &apos;s how you have to tip the ipad and get the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book here , and every world here , becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to take here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these maps have been static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows itself in other places in the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to someone say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve been so internal and collectively accepted that creativity and suffering are somehow related , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard about fees and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras &apos; chambers for thousands of years in an old bold book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story that confronts new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is , is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a food today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways of connecting magic to the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re going to plan an interaction where you &apos;re going to use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you &apos;re going to see an animation of elves that appear on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world in which technology &apos;s natural forces can get closer to each other , and in magic and technology can approach each other .
do you feel comfortable with it ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in investigating , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in the social development settlements and places where there is a lot of hopelessness .
being here at ted , seeing and hearing how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short run here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have a global impact .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it otherwise wouldn &apos;t have .
i think they &apos;re disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good , but as a doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household , dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a gun , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trcestate that involves glowing coal without burn , an astonishing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in such a way that it holds when it &apos;s put in a state of extreme arousal .
and i think it &apos;s dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it be taken over to the next century .
it was also the starting point of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
her parents were born as slaves in virginia in the 1840s .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery really formed her world view .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe . then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you still feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said , &quot; no , &quot; she hugged me again . when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was something that made you want to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better to live our great creative encouragement .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and i went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
it went 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me in the hand and she said , &quot; come , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember that it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start off this dark path of conjecture -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;ll do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; the next thing i &apos;m going to say is that you &apos;re always going to do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise it . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is that you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise it . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack beer with snatched my sister and i and went to the forest with us .
we were just albering around there as well as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a sip of beer and offered my sister one , and she assumed , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , we &apos;re going to do this . we &apos;re going to do this , you &apos;re going to do everything else we &apos;re doing .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re still going to go crazy because of the conversation with oma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells everybody grandchildren they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is being judged by the world as the work that came out of the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m standing that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren that they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
i &apos;m just saying it , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncle died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we need to care about .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different than 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged with currency , or with conditional exposure .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one in three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , abandoned , or with conditional exposure .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia to baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , in insurance or in conditional exposure .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also deformed by poverty .
we have a legal system in this country that they &apos;re much better treated when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be very happy with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there &apos;s a couple of very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start at 9 o &apos;clock in the morning , drink gin , and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling out the right to vote when they &apos;re sentenced to the law .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population has permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honor rights is going to be as high as before the election legislation .
silence is earth-numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , we have life-long sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;re taught that the real question is : did a human being deserve to die for a crime that he had ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other point of view is not , did anybody deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we found for innocent comes out of the death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique sound of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , they were the most extraordinary ones from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anybody fly on an airplane if for nine planes that pick up , one goes down .
but somehow , we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after a while of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people were afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people come to me now and say , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in the history of our nation , we have to do with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people we grew up with this . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the racing and decades of racial submission and apartheid .
and yet , there &apos;s a dynamic in our country -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way of writing a safe distance between me and my very natural sticking about how the reaction will be to the written .
and so we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re always bumping up each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that racing is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there is no death penalty .
and of course , it can never be in germany . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models last year to do that , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more sensible ideas about how to help creatively deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our history , it &apos;s impossible that we will ever speak to the systematic killing of people .
it would be unaware of us , consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unknowable .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we hire people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher , when the victim knows , than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the charged black is , and the victim knows -- in the same states in which the body is paralyzed people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult topics , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest led me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but in the end , these realities become overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deployment , limitation .
i think it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the need for more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to exist in a complex world .
for me , that means bringing up time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe , at the end of the day , things we can &apos;t see .
we do that . as rational as we are , as much as we value intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development are not just coming out of our minds .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-to-head connection , which i think is driving us to be not just open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and the problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said this .
&quot; when we fought against oppression in eastern europe , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe the ted communities need to engage in .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be completely human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch them deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece , and rome people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-bus boycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white , whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women would come together and just talk .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , woman parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do when you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the &quot; initiative for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do something about injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the crimination system .
we want to eliminate life penalty without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarcerations . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine divine spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to be very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think the ted community should be a braver .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true of every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , it &apos;s not just a liar .
he was known by socrates that he believed he had a demonstration that told him from far away .
if someone takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , it &apos;s not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that is , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and so inspiring , we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not at the things we &apos;re developing , not at our intellect and minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerted .
because in this context , we &apos;re just beginning to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . a story at the end .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people returned into an isolated volcanic mass that goes beyond the caribbean plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body logic of creativity , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead to our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who should be on trial as an adult .
and then i wonder , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long and thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this assignment , and the headline was , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black mandants like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my commission , i explained that the misconduct of the state lawyer and the police and the driving errors were consistent .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that &apos;s just wrong .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed of this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my terrifying , i had not only written him , but sent him to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i &apos;ve got to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature , which was believed to be literally in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the head of the house -- that came out and the artist in the work would , in a sense , be invisible assisting and designing the outcome of the work .
i got in the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i went up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly black man who was the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered to my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
that &apos;s brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply in me , identity , the ability of every single person to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i entered the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you do this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and proxy state lawyers and office workers .
the courthouse of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my eye angle , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
after all , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial expression in the courthouse and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in to disturb that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the target out of the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is widening far , but it &apos;s increasing justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not completely evolved as human beings until we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is linked to the survival of every single one .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want you to see those who are seeing this , just say , don &apos;t lose your goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a national decision in this spring , which is really about trying to do a job of reducing something from the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , for example , in california , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty in the next five years , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the killing deprivation doesn &apos;t end with an arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you wouldn &apos;t look at it all for you , everybody knew you had this bodiless genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
in the last three decades , the crime rate has declined immensely in america .
this fact is often put in a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarcerations in this country were not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided cross against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prison inmates .
we &apos;ve let ourselves tear down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that keep people behind the grid forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , little good for the theft , rather than forcing them to give back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think our current philosophy of punishment doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string vibrate here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death takes an increased risk of driving .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit lazy .
famine in somalia . three : pepper spray of the police .
lo : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
boy : social decline . 7 : 65 deaths .
rs : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyberattacks
different kinds of drugs war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media prefer to show us negative topics , because our minds are paying attention to those very topics .
so people in the west have been thinking about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second , our senses catch much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first stop for all of this information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it &apos;s sorting , and it &apos;s coming through the whole information looking for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; if it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices , which give us seven days a week , 24 hours a day all these negative news , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodstream continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- about all gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , species dying , water and energy problems -- we already have .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can see the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has adapted to inflation &apos;s average income in the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has decreased by a tenth .
and that &apos;s because the food , electrical transportation and communications costs have been reduced by a multiplicity .
steve pinker has shown us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
consider that a large percentage of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the world &apos;s imperators , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these forms technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things in this curve .
first of all , how smooth it is -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high contrast .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite her logarithmic process on the left , she &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are all available .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something that my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human enemies . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask students to create companies , products and services that can positive the lives of billions of people within a decade .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think to allow a mere person to think that he or she is like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteriums is a little too much responsibility to brush them up to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about creating scarce goods abundance .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the mid-18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the siam king got aluminum basin .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plain .
this is why the dome of the aluminum monument was made of aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s associated with oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy bounces on the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
this displays and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , the first time that you did it was to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar came down by 50 percent last year .
this has been published last month with a study showing that by the end of this decade , in the sunny areas of the u.s. solar energy , it will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have a surplus of energy , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it called ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has killed our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet covered in 70 percent water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are out , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; and which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator at the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything &apos;s going well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola is going to apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology-supported innovation that we have today .
and if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- it &apos;s the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just think that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communications than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and perhaps the best part is what we expect in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing , with the qualcommand foundation , the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaners or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the burden of disease and 1.3 percent of the staff of health care .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus , which is not known , it calls the health agency and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call it &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and diet around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion internet users to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will join the global communications .
until today , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education to priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe to go back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the biggest economic shots in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and being more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , never heard before ?
how about giving a voice to the oppressed , wherever you are , to pay attention to yourself and to create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some people might know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
and it showed that nowadays , human pattern recognition better folds the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , it wasn &apos;t a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked in the day as a assistant of the business guide in a rehab clinic , and at night it was the best protein organizer in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we now have more power than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who are really reporting the scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- feathers that people are following and apply to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long enough time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to do this .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving to the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon and turns to statistics , and to use these as a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 beats .
that means beat the ball out , it comes up , it doesn &apos;t get caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t get it done in time , and the runner was in safety .
three out of 10 .
do you know what a 3,00ter is called a major league baseball ?
all right , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what &apos;s called a 4,00ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , surely hits four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s move back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i &apos;ve talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and you have a doctor who has a cardiologist whose average performance is in vascular representation of 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think like the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday shelter , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
what we do , however , is we send each of them , including me , to the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody is thinking about the details of how to do this .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive student .
in high school , a fellow student said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and so was it .
and i learned in my little dress in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane skill of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomy lecture , i learned the origins and executives of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnostics .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubulatin azican .
and i &apos;ve been collecting more and more knowledge all the time .
and i was good , i closed with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while , until i met a printer .
i was resistant to a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman who was brought to me in the emergency room .
at that point , i was referred to the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my mission when the emergency workers were looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that , as anyone knows , has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to give back to my chief doctor .
i studied woman printing , and she was in respiratory breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made cunning sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping the whole blood , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung and fills it all together , so the short-term came .
and this was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure from the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water tablets , so they &apos;re goodbye to the fluid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better about herself .
in fact , sometimes it can feel really paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the listener , and i did what i should have , which would have been a call to my chief doctor to explain it with him , so that he had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew that he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of eclipse , in stone huts at the base of the glaciers for 18 years , and two periods of nine years are chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy they spent in the lap of their quiet mother , now they spend metamorphorphically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who had been a poet all her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the village virginia , she was working out on the fields , and she said she would feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
so i sent them home , i mixed a quiet voice inside me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacking self-security that i asked the nurse who was taking care of the woman , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it , and she said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as though it was yesterday .
so i signed the descendants and an ambulance and a rescue assistant came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car , when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it was like a thundering train of air .
and there was another nurse , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency medicine is particularly because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words said , remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patients they sent home ? &quot;
the nurse was expert .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and in dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency ward with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous state of shock .
she barely breathed , and she had run blue .
that would roll over the country to you .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure .
they attached it to the respiratory machine .
i was shocked , and i was crashed to the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care center after the stabilization , and i hoped she would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized she was never going to wake up again .
she had suffered an untreatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they went to the shooting .
on the day of the day , they listed her -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would get the earth under her feet to beg .
they say you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i made a bid , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk about it with the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one swore on defeat , and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it , and my terrifying discussion , if you end up with the bad conscience , and you swear that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do review and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of teacher shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief doctor , he was very dear .
she knew she could only do one of those moments , and that was , in her words , running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the wounds and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the chief doctor ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it set out .
i started to feel better .
and then on a wounded day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection , and i never again made a mistake that the voice could be silent .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and the only thing was that she had to get quickly enough to a sheet of paper and a pen , so that when it went through it , she could capture it and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a ripe .
it was a lot off , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the racks , and it was a little bit pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin , and i sent him on .
and even when he went out of the door , he showed up on his rake .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my boss asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t get to the house , and the poem rolled through it , and she missed it . she said it would move on to land , and as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature revenge ? &quot;
it turns out he was infecting a streptococtococture .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google this , but it &apos;s not an infection of the revenge , but the upper respiratory pathways , and it causes the conclusion of the respiratory pathways .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenious antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt free and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfolding inflammation twice .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff to do , especially if you think you &apos;re working in a hospital that only had 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no shortage of their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- the part i &apos;ll never forget -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
i thought he had kidney stones .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that wasn &apos;t found , my colleague found a hardening hardening in the lower right sector and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i put on fluids to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to look at him as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they were doing surgery , and they were doing fine .
both cases nailed to me , asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors happened only in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but is total nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and unsupported .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through it , and she picks up a pen just as it goes through it and then -- she said -- it was like her other hand reaching for it and getting it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish up with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can tell you the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so you don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went to a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard of someone who was talking about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , they go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talking about your mistakes .
if i went to a room full of colleagues and asked for their immediate support , and start telling them what i just told you , i probably wouldn &apos;t get to the end of the second story before it really became uncomfortable , anybody would intervene a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off the wrong leg , believe me that i had problems looking at him .
that &apos;s the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them -- the ones that constrain sleep deprivation and the ones that don &apos;t have any constraints , the ones that have bad results and the ones that have good results .
she caught the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it on the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we put those who make mistakes out of medicine , we &apos;re left with a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical sensation and journalism , i &apos;ve created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first papers , which i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inadequate .
we &apos;re working in a system where every day , errors happen , where one in 10 medications is either false or wrong , where hospital infections are getting more and more and more abundant and more devastating or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of total errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is deciding the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as precisely as we should .
and this is the crux .
and all the time , they are culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- are balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in freely and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge is doubling every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with breast pain .
and then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat him , and i do a little bit of alcoholic breath , and all of a sudden the story is permeated with contempt .
i &apos;m not taking the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of that , in summary , is inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i &apos;ve been taught , and you put out all the miserable health professionals , there &apos;s no one left at the end .
when i heard that , i thought it was uncanny -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know about people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everybody from rescue assistant to the chef of the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show him with the microphone .
and then their pupils expand , they &apos;ve been bumped in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that allows them to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the redefined doctor is a human being , white for his humanity , accepts her , is not proud to make mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning something out of her , so it can be passed on .
she shares her experience with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports them when others talk about their mistakes .
and it shows others their errors , not just to mention , but in a loving , supportive way , so that everybody benefits .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people are filling the system with life , and if that is , then people are making mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is developing to create backups , which make it easier to find errors , to make people inevitable , and also to create loving , supportive spaces , where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for it , and especially for people like me who are making mistakes and rewarding them .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret it , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you &apos;re holding from me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a wall animal . in order to work , i have to stand up and sweat every day at the same time , and i &apos;m tired and i &apos;m really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about alterable fundamental values .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was hunting fink , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my moor-like species , sometimes i &apos;ve created this thing .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still in the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re originally .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , which is the variable range of the boreal .
because i experienced it when i was in 1971 studying a lagoon in west africa .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i didn &apos;t really come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon was surrounded by palms and by some mangroves .
there was a bomb shelter of about 20 centimeters , black chimneys , a subspecies of the bunbark .
the fisheries of this bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well off and earned a good job in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew up five inches .
they were genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also lucky to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my co-creation in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather in the early &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fishery promoted countries that started 100,000 fish , the industrial fishery of this rather ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went to it , and we did survey all over southern china , and especially in javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i now know it was the reason for the ocean .
90 percent of our beginning was sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck , and then it was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition is very quick .
within a year , you do a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case -- a hard reason or soft coral is going to be a match-crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
once we started a vivid one .
she was not drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of drills is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas where they &apos;ve never been fished .
and how do we relate to that without losing our minds , but to keep ourselves in the opposite of mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
and if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis are a couple of good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , they just want to get the poor remains .
that &apos;s our goal , largely now .
we want to get things that have disappeared , or things that are no longer the way they were .
now you might think that the problem was looking at people who were certainly living in predatory societies , killing animals , and who were only aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely ever before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a lot of preceding animals .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a great loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out , and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you &apos;re seeing a sunrise . and in this crystal clear moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to radiate on the hands of the amazingly beautiful landscape , all of a sudden everything you &apos;ve learned in the abstract , is confirmed in astonishing glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really like i told you .
we were talking about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the naked modern artist who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and to deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the basic value .
the question is , why do people accept that ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was different once .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence , as it was in an earlier form , is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdote that the report of a capital in this area that has observed large fish benefits can &apos;t be used , or fishermen scientists don &apos;t normally be valued , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that allows them to reclaim their basic values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the movie can perhaps fill the gap , as well as simulations .
this is the chesapeake bay simulation .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and shades , you might remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by this -- besides the pocahonette story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it calls for something that has been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , so he turns underwater avatar ii .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as it is often in inspiration , is terribly difficult for him to grasp , and he wants to have it . she &apos;s glorious . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t grab it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this , and how much that would constrain freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow blobs on each side , in a pattern that clearly tracks the page to you and your printer .
that &apos;s what happens to us today .
and no one seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , the citizens .
he has no piece of paper , he has no pen , he has no cassette records .
and this is one of the three main sources of the existing online problems today .
let &apos;s look at what really happens in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a lot of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaire , multi-millionaire cases that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb inside of him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watt .
björn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online too wealthy , but they &apos;ve illegal acquired it by , for example , using trojans to steal money out of our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information in the input of the keyboard while we &apos;re buying on an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror , two months ago , was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and this account was 14.9 million dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on the freezing foot , the location is unknown .
and i want to argue that it &apos;s more likely today that we become victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crime is going to be online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not making it .
the second largest group of attacks that we see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , like , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main groups : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who do it resistance , but the last group are nations , governments who run attacks .
that &apos;s where we have cases like diginotar .
it shows you what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a full-scale certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to report insolvenz , because diginotar had been hacked .
someone had broken in and had hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week at a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to see if he could make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in the aftermath of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate requires you to have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign services like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but if you &apos;re in a foreign , you can do it .
certification agencies provide hacks and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 looted the headquarters of egyptian secret police , and they found a lot of acts .
in these acts , there was a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , notes were a local company that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they were able to do -- in a very large scale -- any communication from the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program to the egyptian government for 280,000 euros .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can go against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojan found , which was a trojan , who was used by german government officials to pat their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re pretty much likely to tap into your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the statesman to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor all their communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
do i look like i could just write down a song ?
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we like our governments to trust , every right we give up is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , a government that we may have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with a fixed measurement that fits together .
concrete tiles became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in the position to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone after another .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically bonding stone .
and within a few years , lego went into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion rocks were produced -- or 75 rocks for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , interconnected building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex circles , one stone after the other .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just experts .
if not , squawks today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so they can &apos;t put them all around the wrong way .
the rocks are color coded .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
they put a blue on a green one , and they can make light .
they can put a switch in between , and so they &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out around a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blind .
add this buzzer for an additional effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wire or solve , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to speed up or slow down , you just turn on this button , and it makes the pulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a used stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve been distributing littlebits to children and seeing them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in your day-to-day life that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
like , for example , a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience of electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filz , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who didn &apos;t have any technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and we said , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds it was lifted up when he took the genius out of it , where he didn &apos;t cause anything but anger and left it where he came from , in a way , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internalized , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the strange , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit of the way i worked , and it has saved me .
this idea rescued me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of those atrocities of the doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start thinking it &apos;s going to be a disaster . that &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are the younger brothers , we are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started thinking , i should just get into the project .
but then i remembered tom talking in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my look at the manuscript and i spoke my comment towards a blank corner of space .
i said , &quot; listen , you know , you &apos;re doing things , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ? &quot;
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and hold your share of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then the hell .
i &apos;m still going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to leave you with protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end of the day , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the desert of north africa , people have gathered to moonlight with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- until the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but over and over again , very rarely , something special happened . one of the performers actually became overwhelming .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know all of you in your life have seen a performance like this .
it was like time to stand still and the dancer walk through a kind of pforte , and he did nothing else than he ever did before -- 1,000 nights before . but it all came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed human .
it was lit up from the inside , and it was lit from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what that was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , michael allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquito conquered south spain , they brought this practice , and the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah = olé , olé , olé , that you still hear in the fight of the kidney and flamenco dancing .
every time we think of indigenous and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old scaffolding of the noblen wild , which is a racial thought in its simplification , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical , something like , &quot; allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god . &quot;
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning , when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer carries a fifth of god in himself .
he &apos;s just an aging mortality with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;s never going to get up to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name again when he turns , but what will he do with the rest of his life ?
it &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite as full of pure when you didn &apos;t believe in the first place that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you may just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- from an unthinkable source for a reader time of your life that &apos;s passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by the nostalgia .
so i &apos;ve started thinking , and so i think , surely in the last few months , while i &apos;ve been working on the book , which is going to appear soon -- as the dangerous , scary , very expected successor of my descendants .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about it is : don &apos;t fear .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be for your contribution , whatever it might be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the stupid divine genius that you &apos;re on the side decides for a moment to show a smoke of wonder through your effort , then olé !
and if not , still dance .
and it &apos;s olé ! for you , despite all that .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of space for that in the malaria spare swamp of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they have yet , through time and ritual , created a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist in itself , because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
you know , &quot; yo ! &quot; in spite of all of that , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which , for nearly three million years , had the size of the bottom 48 states , has shrunk by 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse recording of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows to the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood , which flows out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because warming is the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there &apos;s huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it comes up , is implemented by microbes to methane .
compared to the whole amount of climate change in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we cross that critical point .
already today , in a few flat lakes in alaska methane from the water itself .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
it &apos;s fine . the question is , how will we do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat crew heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andean , who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind , who determines his destiny , will become a whole other person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be deposited .
this is an annual dive river .
but volume is much larger than ever before .
this is the kanger lussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level is melting through land ice sheets , it &apos;s going up into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adding .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has appeared over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes up there that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s an inherent place of a mind or a pile of insurgency is irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the glaciers , this glacier is the water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but when they seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the basins .
and the predictions , as you &apos;ve read , are serious .
this is a current current around the world that leads to a dramatic increase in fires .
and the catastrophes around the world have grown in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day in the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific , the american continent west and both over the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the most equal problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be rooted .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political debate in our country .
and the coal dustries and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year of calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , at home in tennessee , there was a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is all over our country the second largest waste of america .
this happened at christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry in christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a delight , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests of the insurgency place of hukuk and the curved celestial beak and the cannibalic spirits that live on the north of the world , spirits that they would join in their hamatsa-initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers are staying in the wage and the bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , a part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious danger for our business .
so we set out on the top of the line to spend a significant amount of money trying to get a commercial action on the way to get the truth over coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s do a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty noisy .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , which is the remarkable clean coal technology that you see here , changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is the current , clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative mixes up with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , different ways of thinking , different ways of orienting the earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
restore america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
reframe america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels , which sticks our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard of , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investment to create well-paid jobs .
reframe america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get far , and very quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time of your childhood , when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab your hands , pick up the blades and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is tightly connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my professional advisor patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we were to use computers that , instead of a mouse pointer that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface -- what if we could intervene with both hands and physically capture data and put it in the way we want it ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer and siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , it &apos;s physical , so you can move it like building blocks just by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop awareness of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the hostilities of our relationship with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is designed for the video repertoire , and when i flip it in one direction , the video is played forward , and when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin five and methoxydimethtryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , it makes you interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to realize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we designed three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we overdo it , we can throw back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of rapid trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i do with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve ever seen the yanoma , as you sniff this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethtryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came on a trip to the media lab , and i was able to get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; educate words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the bottom right .
it turns out that he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
so sniffing this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , smashed by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive animation .
we wanted to develop a learning tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he gets a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them side-by-side , he can have the characters interacting ...
it &apos;s not produced as a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time for today to show it is a music sequencer for live , which we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you &apos;re eating them by just holding a sound siftable to a sequence siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular note , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed this with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic eve with the discovery of the magic mushroom in mexico in the 300s , and i claimed that you couldn &apos;t arrange these tryptamins as hallucinators , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then there &apos;s some overall effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start by eating the leadership voice in two sequencing sessions and putting it in a series , expanding it and adding it a little bit more to the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and now i connect the filter with the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by flipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to combine the filter with the barrel , for a little more expression .
i can reorder the sequence as it walks .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i can expand them or shorter them .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because , of course , through a human gut , they &apos;re naturally occurring enzyme called monoamin oxidase .
and finally , i can exploit the whole sequence by bending the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human computer interfaces that fit better to how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways we &apos;re working on our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we &apos;re on the verge of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media , which brings information to our world , which is our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversation with all of you .
yeah , good day .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be connected to some other chemicals that the mao denaturize .
i &apos;ve got to get a little bit out of that , and that &apos;s biohacking , and it &apos;s just about modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been doing biohacking for a few years now , and i started that because i just wanted to know more , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in college .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general now , in general speaking , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is , now , extremely important and much , much more important is going to be in the future .
there are so controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s craig venter in the u.s.a , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are things that have come to life , which most people don &apos;t realize , for example , laundry enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry , are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which are in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that are necessary to potentially potentially potentially potentially potentially potentially potentially , so ask yourself .
and so from the interest of this , this technology , i just went on into this .
so , why hacking ?
most people know this from the software area , most people know this .
computers are hacking , and then it &apos;s always going to be , yes , the hackers are going to break in and steal data and so on .
and that &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacker scene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started like , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be just a access problem , which is , you know , how do things simplify , which is a random problem , throw up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better ?
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , and there &apos;s a whole bastler scene that &apos;s done with electronics circuits , all kinds of things that are going on .
and now , in the process of biology , i want to take this metaphor that comes out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not quite like computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinent plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is larger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and so you can hack it , so , and i found that incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
that actually has only taken two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation based in india , but now has members or active people around the world .
these are a more artistic equipment , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborators with scientists who are dealing with these technologies and asking questions and processing them creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but in fact , it &apos;s all about finding such a more attractive access , such a playful transition .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the u.s.a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum , where you &apos;re going to go and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and they &apos;re also asking , yes , applied questions .
and based on these networks , which have been popular , they &apos;ve developed a scene like this that i want to portray for a second .
here in the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , such a private school , nonprofit facility , where anyone can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
children , old , all kinds of people go there and just sit down with it , they put a lab in the lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
on the bottom left here is a group in indonesia , house-of-the-natural fibers , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for longer than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials and , yes , electronics , and they &apos;re combining it in a pretty remote way .
a group of ankara , which i &apos;ve learned a while ago , which is a group of students who wanted to communicate more to the public what they were learning in college , and they &apos;ve done so on the street , little action , and they &apos;re trying to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen in the medical museum combined with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that really all of you together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and you &apos;re also very specific to the society to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you in it like this ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology now , you kind of need material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab is that these are sort of remote machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. students and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine has actually higher technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really the way it is .
and s o , with this premise , then , for example , brian degger in england has tried to put together a minimum abor , has taken a steam cookie , a heat plate , and , yes , like that , and has grown bacteria .
so anyone who &apos;s been gaming a soup that he &apos;s been making for too long has been done .
i tried this in my lab to expand a little bit , and then i bought a second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did some d.n.a analysis , and i tried to do a paternity test , which is like / d.n.a fingerprinting .
that shouldn &apos;t be a joke , actually , but .
at the bottom of this picture , you can see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s such an admitted garage with all kinds of labels that the college has done , a group in paris , which is a group that has been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and it &apos;s also doing pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , the hackerspace i just mentioned , this one , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you can see it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so there &apos;s a lot of people who are doing this on their own , all the way up to large , larger organizations that are already doing this in the institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but it &apos;s always the approach that it &apos;s supposed to be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we sort of became aware of ourselves , o.k , it &apos;s now giving us here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are chatting and so on .
and then the do-it-yourself bio org website came from the founder , and he said , &quot; oh , we &apos;ve got to really meet , we &apos;ve got to get true , we &apos;ve got two events , one in london , two thousand ten , and soon after that in the u.s. , in san francisco . &quot;
and then it was also about , yes , yeah , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-the-conduct .
that was pretty intuitive , so everyone just expressed his wishes , his and what moves him , then .
this is where , in my opinion , a very good code came from .
and then we don &apos;t have that in common , but that &apos;s why , i think , has been pretty good at it , and people are quite convinced that way .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 variants on ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest , which seems to be a kind of thing for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects do we actually do now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build something called an optical trap or an optical pink chain .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid and then move in that focus , you know , it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get there , and then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , turned off the lens , and then you have a microscope that &apos;s going to expand about four hundred times .
you see that down there .
and then we screwed up a d.v.d brenner , and we pulled the tank out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
so another project , which is from the french group of people in paris , which worked out , is pretty cool .
and he &apos;s got this kind of thing , you know , a brain wave measuring device , so e.e. , or something like that , so he &apos;s been involved in neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they do their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , this is what he did .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or what they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fancy project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain reaction , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , breeding genes , d.n.a , generating fragments so that you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the scene of the crime , then they go , they collect some hair samples , and then they do this technique , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyscale , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just an application of a lot that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they ran two builders like this , and they said , okay , we &apos;ll make it easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve got it out of open source , so free hardware , electronics , this device , assembled , and they &apos;re now the ones that have actually brought it to the market , and they &apos;re now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think that kind of six-dollar or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a frame where it &apos;s getting much more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very common hack .
one project that i had recently started was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun that shoots about that far , two inches or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles , and then you put the gold particles in these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i made them light like this .
so the device you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , but it &apos;s pretty much looked like this , on a branch like this , put the thing on it , put electronics on it , and pressure on it , and that was the pressure was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juicer and i attached that to it .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in the full moon and you sing them to you in a different pitch .
a juicer , if you make it full of water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to sixty bar .
and then you can accelerate the particles very enough , and then they go into the onion as well .
and the commercial device costs about 50 thousand euros upward or something like that , adhesive , about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , this is , at the moment , the core cause of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and no chance of getting really good at it .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it yourself .
and i think technology is becoming more important in our modern societies .
and if , as an informed citizen , you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society , and you want to be able to communicate , you need to have access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
and that then promotes open knowledge and citizen science under the headwords .
so that , as a citizen , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who have at least officially contributed on the website , d.i.y. bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know about some who have not been admitted .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
partly with these hackerspaces , so they put these places together .
